Exercise 1




Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading passage.
 


Immediately relevant to game theory are the sex
ratios in certain parasitic wasp species that have a
large excess of females. In these species, fertilized eggs
Line develop into females and unfertilized eggs into males.
 


1. The author suggests that the work of Fisher and
Hamilton was similar in that both scientists c
(A) conducted their research at approximately
the same time
 
5






10






15






20
 
A female stores sperm and can determine the sex of
each egg she lays by fertilizing it or leaving it
unfertilized. By Fisher‘s genetic argument that the sex
ratio will be favored which maximizes the number of
descendants an individual will have and hence the
number of gene copies transmitted, it should pay a
female to produce equal numbers of sons and daughters.
Hamilton, noting that the eggs develop within their
host—the larva of another insect—and that the newly
emerged adult wasps mate immediately and disperse,
offered a remarkably cogent analysis. Since only one
female usually lays eggs in a given larva, it would pay
her to produce one male only, because this one male
could fertilize all his sisters on emergence. Like Fisher,
Hamilton looked for an evolutionarily stable strategy,
but he went a step further in recognizing that he was
looking for a strategy.
 




















































1
 
(B) sought to manipulate the sex ratios of some
of the animals they studied
(C) sought an explanation of why certain sex
ratios exist and remain stable
(D) studied game theory, thereby providing important
groundwork for the later development of strategy
theory
(E) studied reproduction in the same animal species

For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply

2. The passage contains information that would
answer which of the following questions about
wasps?  B c
A How many eggs does the female wasp
usually lay in a single host larva?
B Can some species of wasp determine sex
ratios among their offspring?
C What is the approximate sex ratio
among the offspring of parasitic wasps?


3. Which of the following is NOT true of the species of
parasitic wasps discussed in the passage? d
(A) Adult female wasps are capable of storing sperm.
(B) Female wasps lay their eggs in the larvae of
other insects.
(C) The adult female wasp can be fertilized by a male that
was hatched in the same larva as herself.
(D) So few male wasps are produced that extinction is
almost certain.
(E) Male wasps do not emerge from their hosts until they
reach sexual maturity. 









Questions 4 to 5 are based on the following reading passage.
 


Tocqueville, apparently, was wrong. Jacksonian
America was not a fluid, egalitarian society where
individual wealth and poverty were ephemeral
Line conditions. At least to argues E. Pessen in his
 


4. According to the passage, Pessen indicates that all of
the following were true of the very wealthy in the United
States between 1825 and 1850 EXCEPT:
 d 
5






10






15






20
 
iconoclastic study of the very rich in the United States
between 1825 and 1850.
Pessen does present a quantity of examples, together
with some refreshingly intelligible statistics, to establish
the existence of an inordinately wealthy class. Though
active in commerce or the professions, most of the
wealthy were not self-made, but had inherited family
fortunes. In no sense mercurial, these great fortunes
survived the financial panics that destroyed lesser ones.
Indeed, in several cities the wealthiest one percent
constantly increased its share until by 1850 it owned
half of the community‘s wealth. Although these
observations are true, Pessen overestimates their
importance by concluding from them that the undoubted
progress toward inequality in the late eighteenth century
continued in the Jacksonian period and that the United
States was a class-ridden, plutocratic society even
 
(A) They formed a distinct upper class.
(B) Many of them were able to increase their holdings.
(C)Some of them worked as professionals or in
business.
(D) Most of them accumulated their own fortunes.
(E) Many of them retained their wealth in spite of
financial upheavals.


5. Which of the following best states the author‘s
main point? e
(A) Pessen‘s study has overturned the previously
established view of the social and economic
structure of early nineteenth-century America.
(B) Tocqueville‘s analysis of the United States
in the Jacksonian era remains the definitive
account of this period.
(C) Pessen‘s study is valuable primarily because
 
before industrialization.
 
(162 words)
 
































2
 
it shows the continuity of the social
system in the United States throughout
the nineteenth century.
(D) The social patterns and political power of
the extremely wealthy in the United
States between 1825 and 1850 are well
documented.
(E) Pessen challenges a view of the social and
economic system in the United States
from 1825 to 1850, but he draws
conclusions that are incorrect. 









Anaerobic glycolysis is a process in which energy is
produced, without oxygen, through the breakdown of
muscle glycogen into lactic acid and adenosine tri-
Line phosphate (ATP), the energy provider. The amount
 









6. The passage‘s suggestion that the total anaerobic
energy reserves of a vertebrate are proportional to the
vertebrate‘s size is based on which of the following
assumption?
d 
5






10
 
of energy that can be produced anaerobically is a
function of the amount of glycogen present—in all
vertebrates about 0.5 percent of their muscles‘ wet
weight. Thus the anaerobic energy reserves of a verte-
brate are proportional to the size of the animal. If, for
example, some predators had attacked a 100-ton
dinosaur, normally torpid, the dinosaur would have
been able to generate almost instantaneously, via
anaerobic glycolysis, the energy of 3,000 humans at
maximum oxidative metabolic energy production.
 






























































3
 
(A) larger vertebrates conserve more energy
than smaller vertebrates
(B) larger vertebrates use less oxygen per unit
weight than smaller vertebrates
(C) the ability of a vertebrate to consume food
is a function of its size
(D) the amount of muscle tissue in a vertebrate
is directly related to its size
(E) the size of a vertebrate is proportional to
the quantity of energy it can utilize 










Extraordinary creative activity has been characterized
as revolutionary, flying in the face of what is established
and producing not what is acceptable but what will
Line become accepted. According to this formulation, highly
 










study of his compositions reveals that Beethoven
overturned no fundamental rules. Rather, he was an
50 incomparable strategist who exploited limits—the
rules, forms, and conventions that he inherited from
 
5






10






15






20






25






30






35






40






45
 
creative activity transcends the limits of an existing form
and establishes a new principle of organization. How-
ever, the idea that extraordinary creativity transcends
established limits in misleading when it is applied to the
arts, even though it may be valid for the sciences.
Difference between highly creative art and highly creative
science arise in part from a difference in their goals. For
the sciences, a new theory is the goal and end result of the
creative act. Innovative science produces new
propositions in terms of which diverse phenomena can be
related to one another in more coherent ways. Such
phenomena as a brilliant diamond or a nesting bird are
relegated to the role of data, serving as the means for
formulating or testing a new theory. The goal of highly
creative art is very different: the phenomenon itself
becomes the direct product of the creative act.
Shakespeare‘s Hamlet is not a tract about the behavior of
indecisive princes or the uses of political power; nor is
Picasso‘s painting Guernica primarily a propositional
statement about the Spanish Civil War or the evils of
fascism. What highly creative artistic activity produces is
not a new generalization that transcends established limits,
but rather an aesthetic particular. Aesthetic particulars
produced by the highly creative artist extend or
exploit, in an innovative way, the limits of an existing
form, rather than transcend that form.
This is not to deny that a highly creative artist some-
times establishes a new principle of organization in the
history of an artistic field; the composer Monteverdi,
who created music of the highest aesthetic value, comes
to mind. More generally, however, whether or not a
composition establishes a new principle in the history of
music has little bearing on its aesthetic worth. Because
they embody a new principle of organization, some
musical works, such as the operas of the Florentine
Camerata, are of signal historical importance, but few
listeners or musicologists would include these among the
great works of music. On the other hand, Mozart‘s The
Marriage of Figaro is surely among the masterpieces of
music even though its modest innovations are confined
to extending existing means. It has been said of
Beethoven that he toppled the rules and freed music
from the stifling confines of convention. But a close
 





























































4
 
predecessors such as Haydn and Mozart, Handel and
Bach—in strikingly original ways.
(466words) 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


7. The passage supplies information for answering which
of the following questions? A b 
(A) Has unusual creative activity been character-
ized as revolutionary?
(B) Did Beethoven work within a musical tradition
that also included Handel and Bach?
(C) Who besides Monteverdi wrote music that the
author would consider to embody new prin-
ciples of organization and to be of high aes-
thetic value?


8. The author regards the idea that all highly creative
artistic activity transcends limits with c
(A) deep skepticism
(B) strong indignation
(C) marked indifference
(D) moderate amusement
(E) sharp derision
 













































































5
 









9. The author implies that an innovative scientific
contribution is one that e
(A) is cited with high frequency in the publications
of other scientists
(B) is accepted immediately by the scientific com-
munity
(C) does not relegate particulars to the role of data
(D) presents the discovery of a new scientific fact
(E) introduces a new valid generalization


10. Which of the following statements would most
logically concluded the last paragraph of the
passage? d
(A) Unlike Beethoven, however, even the greatest
of modern composers, such as Stravinsky, did
not transcend existing musical forms.
(B) In similar fashion, existing musical forms were
even further exploited by the next generation
of great European composers.
(C) Thus, many of the great composers displayed
the same combination of talents exhibited by
Monteverdi.
(D) By contrast, the view that creativity in the arts
exploits but does not transcend limits is sup-
ported in the field of literature.
(E) Actually, Beethoven‘s most original works were
largely unappreciated at the time that they
were first performed. 












Great comic art is never otherwordly, it does not
seek to mystify us, and it does not deny ambiguity by
branding as evil whatever differs from good. Great
Line comic artists assume that truth may bear all lights,
 












11. Select the sentence in the passage that suggests that
great comic art can be characterized as optimistic about
the ability of humans to act rationally.
 
5






10






15
 
and thus they seek to accentuate contradictions in
social action, not gloss over or transcend them by
appeals to extrasocial symbols of divine ends, cosmic
purpose, or laws of nature. The moment of
transcendence in great comic art is a social moment,
born out of the conviction that we are human, even
though we try to be gods. The comic community to
which artists address themselves is a community of
reasoning, loving, joyful, compassionate beings, who
are willing to assume the human risks of acting
rationally. Without invoking gods or demons, great
comic art arouses courage in reason, courage which
grows out of trust in what humsan beings can do a
 
12. It can be inferred from the passage that the
author admires great comic artists primarily
for their  d
(A) ability to understand the frequently subtle
differences between good and evil
(B) ability to reconcile the contradictions in
human behavior
(C) ability to distinguish between rational and
irrational behavior
(D) insistence on confronting the truth about
the human condition
(E) insistence on condemning human faults and
weaknesses
 
humans.
13. Which of the following is the most accurate
description of the organization of the passage? c
(A) A sequence of observations leading to a prediction
(B) A list of inferences drawn from facts stated at the
beginning of the passage
(C) A series of assertions related to one general subject
(D) A statement of the major idea, followed by
specific examples
(E) A succession of ideas moving from specific to
general





















6 







Exercise 2
 



By 1950, the results of attempts to relate brain
processes to mental experience appeared rather
discouraging. Herring suggested that different modes of
Line sensation, such as pain, taste, and color, might be
 



2. The description of an experiment in which electric
stimuli were applied to different sensory fields of the
cerebral cortex tends to support the theory that
(A) the simple presence of different cortical areas
 
5






10






15






20






25
 
correlated with the discharge of specific kinds of nervous
energy. However, subsequently developed methods of
recording and analyzing nerve potentials failed to reveal
any such qualitative diversity. Although qualitative
variance among nerve energies was never rigidly
disproved, the doctrine was generally abandoned in favor
of the opposing view, namely, that nerve impulses are
essentially homogeneous in quality and are transmitted as
―common currency‖ throughout the nervous system.
According to this theory, it is not the quality of the
sensory nerve impulses that determines the diverse
conscious sensations they produce, but rather the different
areas of the brain into which they discharge, and there is
some evidence for this view. In one experiment, when an
electric stimulus was applied to a given sensory field of
the cerebral cortex of a conscious human subject, it
produced a sensation of the appropriate modality for that
particular locus, that is, a visual sensation from the visual
cortex, an auditory sensation from the auditory cortex,
and so on. However, cortical locus, in itself, turned out to
have little explanatory value.


1. The author mentions ―common currency‖ in line 13
primarily in order to emphasize the
(A) lack of differentiation among nerve impulses in
human beings
(B) similarity of the sensations that all human
beings experience
(C) similarities in the views of scientists who have
studied the human nervous system
(D) continuous passage of nerve impulses through
the nervous system
(E) recurrent questioning by scientists of an
accepted explanation about the nervous
system
 


























































7
 
cannot account for the diversity of mental
experience
(B) variation in spatiotemporal patterning of nerve
impulses correlates with variation in
subjective experience
(C) nerve impulses are essentially homogeneous
and are relatively unaffected as they travel
through the nervous system
(D) the mental experiences produced by sensory
nerve impulses are determined by the
cortical area activated
(E) variation in neuron types affects the quality of
nerve impulses


3. Which of the following best summarizes the
author‘s opinion of the suggestion that different
areas of the brain determine perceptions produced
by sensory nerve impulses?
(A) It is a plausible explanation, but it has not been
completely proved.
(B) It is the best explanation of brain processes
currently available.
(C) It is disproved by the fact that the various areas
of the brain are physiologically very similar.
(D) There is some evidence to support it, but it fails
to explain the diversity of mental experience.
(E) There is experimental evidence that confirms its
correctness. 










A Marxist sociologist has argued that racism stems
from the class struggle that is unique to the capitalist
system—that racial prejudice is generated by capitalists
Line as a means of controlling workers. His thesis works
 










4. The passage supplies information that would
answer which of the following questions EXCEPT?


A What conditions caused the discrimination
 
5






10






15
 
relatively well when applied to discrimination against
Blacks in the United States, but his definition of racial
prejudice as ―racially-based negative prejudgments
against a group generally accepted as a race in any
given region of ethnic competition,‖ can be interpreted
as also including hostility toward such ethnic groups as
the Chinese in California and the Jews in medieval
Europe. However, since prejudice against these latter
peoples was not inspired by capitalists, he has to reason
that such antagonisms were not really based on race.
He disposes thusly (albeit unconvincingly) of both the
intolerance faced by Jews before the rise of capitalism
and the early twentieth-century discrimination against
Oriental people in California, which, inconveniently,
was instigated by workers.
 




























































8
 
against Oriental people in California in the
early twentieth century?
B What evidence did the Marxist sociologist
provide to support his thesis?
C What explanation did the Marxist sociologist
give for the existence of racial prejudice?

5. According to the passage, the Marxist sociologist‘s
chain of reasoning required him to assert that
prejudice toward Oriental people in California was
(A) directed primarily against the Chinese
(B) similar in origin to prejudice against the Jews
(C) understood by Oriental people as ethnic
competition
(D) provoked by workers
(E) nonracial in character 










It would be wonderful to observe a singularity (an
infinitely dense concentration of matter) and
obtain direct evidence of the undoubtedly bizarre
phenomena that occur near one. Unfortunately, in
most cases a distant observer cannot see the
singularity; outgoing light rays are dragged back by
gravity so forcefully that even if they could start out
within a few kilometers of the singularity, they would end
up in the singularity itself.
 













































































9
 










6. Which of the following sentences would most
probably follow the last sentence of the passage?
(A) Thus, a physicist interested in studying
phenomena near singularities would
necessarily hope to find a singularity
with a measurable gravitational field.
(B) Accordingly, physicists to date have
been unable to observe directly any
singularity.
(C) It is specifically this startling phenomenon
that has allowed us to codify the scant
information currently available about
singularities.
(D) Moreover, the existence of this extra-
ordinary phenomenon is implied in the
extensive reports of several physicists.
(E) Although unanticipated, phenomena such
as these are consistent with the structure
of a singularity. 










The evolution of intelligence among early large
mammals of the grasslands was due in great measure to
the interaction between two ecologically synchronized
Line groups of these animals, the hunting carnivores and the
 










Using past events as a framework, the large mammal
predator is working out a relationship between
50 movement and food, sensitive to possibilities in cold
trails and distant sounds—and yesterday‘s unforgotten
 
5






10






15






20
 
herbivores that they hunted. The interaction resulting
from the differences between predator and prey led to a
general improvement in brain functions; however, certain
components of intelligence were improved far more than
others.
The kind of intelligence favored by the interplay of
increasingly smarter catchers and increasingly keener
escapers is defined by attention—that aspect of mind
carrying consciousness forward from one moment to the
next. It ranges from a passive, free-floating awareness to
a highly focused, active fixation. The range through these
states is mediated by the arousal system, a network of
tracts converging from sensory systems to integrating
centers in the brain stem. From the more relaxed to the
more vigorous levels, sensitivity to novelty is increased.
The organism is more awake, more vigilant; this
 
lessons. The herbivore prey is of a different mind. Its
mood of wariness rather than searching and its attitude
of general expectancy instead of anticipating are
55 silk-thin veils of tranquility over an explosive endocrine
system.
 
increased vigilance results in the apprehension of ever
more subtle signals as the organism becomes more
sensitive to its surroundings. The processes of arousal and
concentration give attention its direction. Arousal is at
25 first general, with a flooding of impulses in the brain stem;
then gradually the activation is channeled. Thus begins
concentration, the holding of consistent images. One
meaning of intelligence is the way in which these images
and other alertly searched information are used in the
 
30






35






40






45
 
context of previous experience. Consciousness links past
attention to the present and permits the integration of
details with perceived ends and purposes.
The elements of intelligence and consciousness come
together marvelously to produce different styles in
predator and prey. Herbivores and carnivores develop
different kinds of attention related to escaping or chasing.
Although in both kinds of animal, arousal stimulates the
production of adrenaline and norepinephrine by the
adrenal glands, the effect in herbivores is primarily fear,
whereas in carnivores the effect is primarily aggression.
For both, arousal attunes the animal to what is ahead.
Perhaps it does not experience forethought as we know it,
but the animal does experience something like it. The
predator is searchingly aggressive, inner-directed, tuned
by the nervous system and the adrenal hormones, but
aware in a sense closer to human consciousness than, say,
a hungry lizard‘s instinctive snap at a passing beetle.
 


























10 









7. The author refers to a hungry lizard (line 47)
primarily in order to
(A) demonstrate the similarity between the
hunting methods of mammals and those
of nonmammals
(B) broaden the application of his argument by
including an insectivore as an example
(C) make a distinction between higher and
lower levels of consciousness
(D) provide an additional illustration of the
brutality characteristic of predators
(E) offer an objection to suggestions that all
animals lack consciousness


8. It can be inferred from the passage that in
animals less intelligent than the mammals
discussed in the passage
(A) past experience is less helpful in ensuring survival
(B) attention is more highly focused
(C) muscular coordination is less highly developed
(D) there is less need for competition among species
(E) environment is more important in establishing
the proper ratio of prey to predator
 













































































11
 









9. The author provides information that would
answer which of the following questions?


A Why is an aroused herbivore usually fearful?
B What are some of the degrees of attention in large
mammals?
C What occurs when the stimulus that causes arousal of
a mammal is removed?


10. According to the passage, as the process of
arousal in an organism continues, all of the
following may occur EXCEPT
(A) the production of adrenaline
(B) the production of norepinephrine
(C) a heightening of sensitivity to stimuli
(D) an increase in selectivity with respect to stimuli
(E) an expansion of the range of states mediated
by the brain stem 










Gutman‘s examination of the slaves‘ extended kinship
system produces important findings. Gutman discovers
that cousins rarely married, an exogamous tendency that
Line contrasted sharply with the endogamy practiced by the
 










11. According to the passage, all of the following
are true of the West African rules governing
marriage:
 
5






10






15






20
 
plantation owners. This preference for exogamy, Gutman
suggests, may have derived from West African rules
governing marriage, which, though they differed from
one tribal group to another, all involved some kind of
prohibition against unions with close kin. This taboo
against cousins‘ marrying is important, argues Gutman,
because it is one of many indications of a strong
awareness among slaves of an extended kinship network.
The fact that distantly related kin would care for children
separated from their families also suggests this
awareness. When blood relationships were few, as in
newly created plantations in the Southwest, ―fictive‖
kinship arrangements took their place until a new pattern
of consanguinity developed. Gutman presents convincing
evidence that this extended kinship structure—which he
believes developed by the mid-to-late eighteenth
century—provided the foundations for the strong
communal consciousness that existed among slaves.
 




























































12
 
A The rules forbade marriages between
close kin.
B The rules were not uniform in all respects
from one West African tribe to another.
C The rules have been considered to be a
possible source of slaves‘ marriage
preferences.


12. Which of the following statements concerning
the marriage practices of plantation owners
during the period of Black slavery in the United
States can most logically be inferred from the
information in the passage.
(A) These practices began to alter sometime
around the mid-eighteenth century.
(B) These practices varied markedly from one
region of the country to another.
(C) Plantation owners usually based their
choice of marriage partners on economic
considerations.
(D) Plantation owners often married earlier
than slaves.
(E) Plantation owners often married their
cousins.


13. Select the sentence in the passage that the author
introduces additional support for the existence of the
awareness of kinship among the slaves of an extended
kinship network. 










Exercise 3
 





The dark regions in the starry night sky are not
pockets in the universe that are devoid of stars as
had long been thought. Rather, they are dark because
Line of interstellar dust that hides the stars behind it.
 





1. According to the passage, which of the following
is a direct perceptual consequence of interstellar
dust EXCEPT?
 
5






10
 
Although its visual effect is so pronounced, dust is
only a minor constituent of the material, extremely
low in density, that lies between the stars. The average
density of interstellar material in the vicinity of our Sun is
1,000 to 10,000 times less than the best terrestrial
laboratory vacuum. It is only because of the enormous
interstellar distances that so little material per unit of
volume becomes so significant. Optical astronomy
is most directly affected, for although interstellar gas
is perfectly transparent, the dust is not. (125 words)
 





















































13
 
A Some stars are rendered invisible to observers on
Earth.
B Many visible stars are made to seem brighter than
they really are.
C The dust is conspicuously visible against a
background of bright stars.


2. It can be inferred from the passage that it is
because space is so vast that
(A) little of the interstellar material in it seems substantial
(B) normal units of volume seem futile for measurements
of density
(C) stars can be far enough from Earth to be obscured
even by very sparsely distributed matter
(D) interstellar gases can, for all practical purposes, be
regarded as transparent
(E) optical astronomy would be of little use even if no
interstellar dust existed 








In Hardy‘s novels, various impulses were sacrificed to
each other inevitably and often. Inevitably, because Hardy
did not care in the way that novelists such as
Line Flaubert or James cared, and therefore took paths of least
 









4. The passage supplies information to suggest that
its author would be most likely to agree with
which of the following statements about the
novelists Flaubert and James?
 
5






10






15
 
resistance. Thus, one impulse often surrendered to a
fresher one and, unfortunately, instead of exacting a
compromise, simply disappeared. A desire to throw over
reality a light that never was might give way abruptly to
the desire on the part of what we might consider a
novelist-scientist to record exactly and concretely the
structure and texture of a flower. In this instance, the new
impulse was at least an energetic one, and thus its
indulgence did not result in a relaxed style. But on other
occasions Hardy abandoned a perilous, risky, and highly
energizing impulse in favor of what was for him the
fatally relaxing impulse to classify and schematize
abstractly. When a relaxing impulse was indulged, the
style—that sure index of an author‘s literary worth—was
certain to become verbose. (167 words)



3. Which of the following words could best be
substituted for ―relaxed‖ (line 13) without
substantially changing the author‘s meaning?
(A) informal
(B) confined
(C) risky
(D) wordy
(E) metaphoric
 






























































14
 
(A) They indulged more impulses in their
novels than did Hardy in his novels.
(B) They have elicited a greater degree of
favorable response from most literary
critics than has Hardy.
(C) In the writing of their novels, they often
took pains to effect a compromise among
their various novelistic impulses.
(D) Regarding novelistic construction, they
cared more about the opinions of other
novelists than about the opinions of
ordinary readers.
(E) They wrote novels in which the impulse
toward realism and the impulse away
from realism were evident in equal
measure.

5. Which of the following statements best describes
the organization of the passage (―Thus…abstractly‖)?
(A) The author makes a disapproving
observation and then presents two cases,
one of which leads to a qualification of
his disapproval and the other of which
does not.
(B) The author draws a conclusion from a
previous statement, explains his
conclusion in detail, and then gives a
series of examples that have the effect of
resolving an inconsistency.
(C) The author concedes a point and then
makes a counterargument, using an
extended comparison and contrast that
qualifies his original concession.
(D) The author makes a judgment, points out
an exception to his judgment, and then
contradicts his original assertion.
(E) The author summarizes and explains an
argument and then advances a brief
history of opposing arguments. 









A mysterious phenomenon is the ability of over-water
migrants to travel on course. Birds, bees, and other
species can keep track of time without any sensory cues
Line from the outside world, and such ―biological clocks‖
 









7. It can be inferred from the passage that if the
flock of birds described in lines 8-9 were
navigating by compass sense alone, they would, after
the storm, fly
 
5
 
clearly contribute to their ―compass sense.‖ For example,
 
(A) east
 
(B) north
 
(C) northwest
 
they can use the position of the Sun or stars, along with
the time of day, to find north. But compass sense alone
 
(D) south
 
(E) southeast
 
cannot explain how birds navigate the ocean: after a flock
traveling east is blown far south by a storm, it will
 
8. Of the following descriptions of migrating
animals, which most strongly suggests that the
 
10






15
 
assume the proper northeasterly course to compensate.
Perhaps, some scientists thought, migrants determine
their geographic position on Earth by celestial navigation,
almost as human navigators use stars and planets, but this
would demand of the animals a fantastic map sense.
Researchers now know that some species have a magnetic
sense, which might allow migrants to determine their
geographic location by detecting variations in the strength
 
animals are depending on magnetic cues to orient
themselves?
(A) Pigeons can properly readjust their course
even when flying long distances through
exceedingly dense fogs.
(B) Bison are able to reach their destination by
passing through a landscape that has
been partially altered by a recent fire.
 
of the Earth‘s magnetic field.
 
(157 words)
 
(C) Elephants are able to find grounds that
some members of the herd have never seen
before.
 
6. The main idea of the passage is that
(A) migration over land requires a simpler
explanation than migration over water
does
(B) the means by which animals migrate over
water are complex and only partly
understood
(C) the ability of migrant animals to keep track
of time is related to their magnetic sense
(D) knowledge of geographic location is
essential to migrants with little or no
compass sense
(E) explanations of how animals migrate tend to
replace, rather than build on, one
another
 





































15
 
(D) Swallows are able to return to a given spot
at the same time every year.
(E) Monarch butterflies coming from different
parts of North America are able to arrive
at the same location each winter. 









Starting from the premise that mythology and legend
preserve at least a nucleus of historical fact, Bachofen
argued that women were dominant in many ancient
Line societies. His work was based on a comprehensive survey
 









9. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) compare competing new approaches to
understanding the role of women in ancient
societies
 
5






10






15






20
 
of references in the ancient sources to Amazonian and
other societies with matrilineal customs—societies in
which descent and property rights are traced through the
female line. Some support for his theory can be found in
evidence such as that drawn from Herodotus, the Greek
―historian‖ of the fifth century B. C. Nonetheless, this
assumption that the first recorders of ancient myths have
preserved facts is problematic. Ancient Greek
descriptions of those societies were meant not so much to
represent observed historical fact—real Amazonian
societies—but rather to offer ―moral lessons‖ on the
supposed outcome of women‘s rule in their own society.
The Amazons were often characterized, for example, as
the equivalents of giants and centaurs, enemies to be slain
by Greek heroes; thus, their customs were presented not
as those of a respectable society, but as the very antitheses
of ordinary Greek practices.
(179 words)
 






























































16
 
(B) investigate the ramifications of Bachofen‘s
theory about the dominance of women in
ancient societies
(C) explain the burgeoning interest among
historians in determining the actual status of
women in various societies
(D) analyze the nature of Amazonian society
and uncover similarities between it and the
Greek world
(E) criticize the value of ancient myths in
determining the status of women in ancient
societies


10. Select the sentence in the passage that is presented
as evidence supporting the author‘s view of the
ancient Greeks‘ descriptions of the Amazons.

11. The author‘s attitude toward Bachofen‘s treatise is
best described as one of
(A) qualified approval
(B) profound ambivalence
(C) studied neutrality
(D) pointed disagreement
(E) unmitigated hostility 









Visual recognition involves storing and retrieving
memories. Neural activity, triggered by the eye, forms an
image in the brain‘s memory system that constitutes an
Line internal representation of the viewed object. When an
 









12. The author is primarily concerned with
(A) explaining how the brain receives images
(B) synthesizing hypotheses of visual recognition
(C) examining the evidence supporting the serial-
 
5






10






15
 
object is encountered again, it is matched with its internal
representation and thereby recognized. Controversy
surrounds the question of whether recognition is a parallel,
one-step process or a serial, step-by-step one.
Psychologists of the Gestalt school maintain that objects
are recognized as wholes in a parallel procedure: the
internal representation is matched with the retinal image in
a single operation. Other psychologists have proposed that
internal representation features are matched serially with
an object‘s features. Although some experiments show
that, as an object becomes familiar, its internal
representation becomes more holistic and the recognition
process correspondingly more parallel, the weight of
evidence seems to support the serial hypothesis, at least
for objects that are not notably simple and familiar.
(151 words)
 






























































17
 
recognition hypothesis
(D) discussing visual recognition and some
hypotheses proposed to explain it
(E) reporting on recent experiments dealing with
memory systems and their relationship to
neural activity


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


13. According to the passage, Gestalt psychologists
make which of the following suppositions about
visual recognition?
A A retinal image is in exactly the same forms as its
internal representation.
B An object is recognized as a whole without any need
for analysis into component parts.
C The matching of an object with its internal
representation occurs in only one step. 










[This page is intentionally left blank. ]

































































18 










Exercise 4
 




It is a popular misconception that nuclear fusion
power is free of radioactivity; in fact, the deuterium-
tritium reaction that nuclear scientists are currently
Line exploring with such zeal produces both alpha particles
 




1. It can be inferred from the passage that the
author believes which of the following about the
current state of public awareness concerning
nuclear fusion power?
 
5






10
 
and neutrons. (The neutrons are used to produce tritium
from a lithium blanket surrounding the reactor.)
Another common misconception is that nuclear fusion
power is a virtually unlimited source of energy because
of the enormous quantity of deuterium in the sea.
Actually, its limits are set by the amount of available
lithium, which is about as plentiful as uranium in the
Earth‘s crust. Research should certainly continue on
controlled nuclear fusion, but no energy program
should be premised on its existence until it has proven
 
(A) The public has been deliberately misinformed
about the advantages and disadvantages of
nuclear fusion power.
(B) The public is unaware of the principal
advantage of nuclear fusion over nuclear
fission as an energy source.
(C) The public‘s awareness of the scientific
facts concerning nuclear fusion power is
somewhat distorted and incomplete.
(D) The public is not interested in increasing its
 
15
 
practical.
 
(122 words)
 
awareness of the advantages and
 
disadvantages of nuclear fusion power.
(E) The public is aware of the disadvantages of
nuclear fusion power but not of its
advantages.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


2. The passage provides information that would
answer which of the following questions EXCEPT?


A How much incidental radiation is produced
in the deuterium tritium fusion reaction?
B What is likely to be the principal source of
deuterium for nuclear fusion power?
C Why are scientists exploring the deuterium-
tritium fusion reaction with such zeal?











19 










Roger Rosenblatt‘s book Black Fiction, in attempting
to apply literary rather than sociopolitical criteria to its
subject, successfully alters the approach taken by
Line most previous studies. As Rosenblatt notes, criticism
 










naturalistic modes of expression?
In spite of such omissions, what Rosenblatt does
50 include in his discussion makes for an astute and
worthwhile study. Black Fiction surveys a wide variety
 
5






10






15






20






25






30






35






40






45
 
of Black writing has often served as a pretext for
expounding on Black history. Addison Gayle‘s recent
work, for example, judges the value of Black fiction by
overtly political standards, rating each work according to
the notions of Black identity which it propounds.
Although fiction assuredly springs from political
circumstances, its authors react to those circumstances in
ways other than ideological, and talking about novels and
stories primarily as instruments of ideology circumvents
much of the fictional enterprise. Rosenblatt‘s literary
analysis discloses affinities and connections among works
of Black fiction which solely political studies have
overlooked or ignored. Writing acceptable criticism of
Black fiction, however, presupposes giving satisfactory
answers to a number of questions. First of all, is there a
sufficient reason, other than the racial identity of the
authors, to group together works by Black authors?
Second, how does Black fiction make itself distinct from
other modern fiction with which it is largely
contemporaneous? Rosenblatt shows that Black fiction
constitutes a distinct body of writing that has an
identifiable, coherent literary tradition. Looking at novels
written by Blacks over the last eighty years, he discovers
recurring concerns and designs independent of
chronology. These structures are thematic, and they
spring, not surprisingly, from the central fact that the
Black characters in these novels exist in a predominantly
White culture, whether they try to conform to that culture
of rebel against it.
Black Fiction does leave some aesthetic questions
open. Rosenblatt‘s thematic analysis permits considerable
objectivity; he even explicitly states that it is not his
intention to judge the merit of the various works—yet his
reluctance seems misplaced, especially since an attempt
to appraise might have led to interesting results. For
instance, some of the novels appear to be structurally
diffuse. Is this a defect, or are the authors working out of,
or trying to forge, a different kind of aesthetic? In
addition, the style of some Black novels, like Jean
Toomer‘s Cane, verges on expressionism or surrealism;
does this technique provide a counterpoint to the
 
of novels, bringing to our attention in the process some
fascinating and little-known works like James Weldon
Johnson‘s Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. Its
55 argument is tightly constructed, and its forthright, lucid
style exemplifies levelheaded and penetrating criticism.
 
prevalent theme that portrays the fate against which Black
heroes are pitted, a theme usually conveyed by more

20 









3. The author of the passage objects to criticism of
Black fiction like that by Addison Gayle
because it
(A) emphasizes purely literary aspects of such
fiction
(B) misinterprets the ideological content of
such fiction
(C) misunderstands the notions of Black
identity contained in such fiction
(D) substitutes political for literary criteria in
evaluating such fiction
(E) ignores the interplay between Black history
and Black identity displayed in such fiction


4. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
(A) evaluating the soundness of a work of criticism
(B) comparing various critical approaches to a subject
(C) discussing the limitations of a particular
kind of criticism
(D) summarizing the major points made in a
work of criticism
(E) explaining the theoretical background of a
certain kind of criticism
 













































































21
 









5. The author of the passage believes that Black
Fiction would have been improved had
Rosenblatt
(A) evaluated more carefully the ideological
and historical aspects of Black fiction
(B) attempted to be more objective in his
approach to novels and stories by Black
authors
(C) explored in greater detail the recurrent
thematic concerns of Black fiction
throughout its history
(D) established a basis for placing Black fiction
within its own unique literary tradition
(E) assessed the relative literary merit of the
novels he analyzes thematically


6. The author of the passage refers to James
Weldon Johnson‘s Autobiography of an Ex-
Colored Man most probably in order to
(A) point out affinities between Rosenblatt‘s
method of thematic analysis and earlier
criticism
(B) clarify the point about expressionistic style
made earlier in the passage
(C) qualify the assessment of Rosenblatt‘s book
made in the first paragraph of the passage
(D) illustrate the affinities among Black novels
disclosed by Rosenblatt‘s literary analysis
(E) give a specific example of one of the
accomplishments of Rosenblatt‘s work 









The transfer of heat and water vapor from the ocean
to the air above it depends on a disequilibrium at the
interface of the water and the air. Within about a
Line millimeter of the water, air temperature is close to that of
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


7. According to the passage, wind over the ocean
 
5






10
 
the surface water, and the air is nearly saturated with
water vapor. But the differences, however small, are
crucial, and the disequilibrium is maintained by air near
the surface mixing with air higher up, which is typically
appreciably cooler and lower in water-vapor content.
The air is mixed by means of turbulence that depends
on the wind for its energy. As wind speed increases, so
does turbulence, and thus the rate of heat and moisture
transfer. Detailed understanding of this phenomenon
 
generally does which of the following?


A Causes relatively cool, dry air to come into proximity
with the ocean surface.
B Maintains a steady rate of heat and moisture
transfer between the ocean and the air.
C Causes frequent changes in the temperature of
the water at the ocean‘s surface.
 
awaits further study.
 
(127 words)
 
















































22
 
8. The passage suggests that if on a certain day the
wind were to decrease until there was no wind at
all which of the following would occur?
(A) The air closest to the ocean surface would
become saturated with water vapor.
(B) The air closest to the ocean surface would be
warmer than the water.
(C) The amount of moisture in the air closest to
the ocean surface would decrease.
(D) The rate of heat and moisture transfer would
increase.
(E) The air closest to the ocean would be at the
same temperature as air higher up. 









―I want to criticize the social system, and to show it at
work, at its most intense.‖ Virginia Woolf‘s provocative
statement about her intentions in writing Mrs. Dalloway
Line has regularly been ignored by the critics, since it
 









9. In the first paragraph of the passage, the author‘s
attitude toward the literary critics mentioned can
best be described as
(A) disparaging
 
5






10






15
 
highlights an aspect of her literary interests very different
from the traditional picture of the ―poetic‖ novelist
concerned with examining states of reverie and vision and
with following the intricate pathways of individual
consciousness. But Virginia Woolf was a realistic as well
as a poetic novelist, a satirist and social critic as well as a
visionary: literary critics‘ cavalier dismissal of Woolf‘s
social vision will not withstand scrutiny.
In her novels, Woolf is deeply engaged by the
questions of how individuals are shaped (or deformed) by
their social environments, how historical forces impinge
on people‘s lives, how class, wealth, and gender help to
determine people‘s fates. Most of her novels are rooted in
a realistically rendered social setting and in a precise
 
(B) ironic
(C) facetious
(D) skeptical but resigned
(E) disappointed but hopeful


10. It can be inferred from the passage that the most
probable reason Woolf realistically described the
social setting in the majority of her novels was
that she
(A) was aware that contemporary literary critics
considered the novel to be the most
realistic of literary genres
(B) was interested in the effect of a person‘s
social milieu on his or her character and
 
historical time.
 
(163 words)
 








































23
 
actions
(C) needed to be as attentive to detail as
possible in her novels in order to support
the arguments she advanced in them
(D) wanted to show that a painstaking fidelity
in the representation of reality did not in
any way hamper the artist
(E) wished to prevent critics from charging that
her novels were written in an ambiguous
and inexact style


11. In the context of the passage, ―poetic‖ is closest in
meaning to
A socioeconomic
B realistic
C political
D visionary
E literary 










Exercise 5
 



Many theories have been formulated to explain the
 



researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the
 
role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the
amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes.
Line The first theories of such grazer control were merely
 
45
 
grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly
in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney
 
5
 
based on observations of negative correlations
between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low num-
 
was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in natural
field conditions. In the periods of peak zooplankton
 
ber of algal cells in the presence of a high number of
grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers
had removed most of the algae. The converse obser-
 
50
 
abundance, that is, in the late spring and in the summer,
Haney recorded maximum daily community grazing
rates, for nutrient-poor lakes and bog lakes, respectively,
 
10
 
vation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high
phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose
 
of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of daily phytoplankton
production. Cladocerans had higher grazing rates than
 
his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothe-
sized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that
excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton
 
55
 
copepods, usually accounting for 80 percent of the
community grazing rate. These rates varied seasonally,
reaching the lowest point in the winter and early spring.
 
15
 
concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal
defenses against grazing.
 
Haney‘s thorough research provides convincing field
evidence that grazers can exert significant pressure on
 
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies
 
60
 
phytoplankton population.
 
(461 words)
 
considered only algae of a size that could be collected
in a net (net phytoplankton), a practice that over-
 
20






25






30






35






40
 
looked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)
that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on,
led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subse-
quent research. Increasingly, as in the individual
studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers
began to stress the importance of environmental
factors such as temperature, light, and water move-
ments in controlling algal numbers. These environ-
mental factors were amenable to field monitoring and
to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed
to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after
phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of
bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor
component of models that predicted algal population
dynamics.
The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on
freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been
determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and
Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by
measuring feeding rates of individual zooplankton
species in the laboratory and then computing com-
munity grazing rates for field conditions using the
known population density of grazers. The high esti-
mates of grazing pressure postulated by these
 


































24
 
1. It can be inferred from the passage that the ―first
theories‖ of grazer control mentioned in the first
paragraph would have been more convincing if
researchers had been able to
(A) observe high phytoplankton numbers under
natural lake conditions
(B) discover negative correlations between
algae and zooplankton numbers from their
field research
(C) understand the central importance of
environmental factors in controlling the
growth rates of phytoplankton
(D) make verifiable correlations of cause and
effect between zooplankton and
phytoplankton numbers
(E) invent laboratory techniques that would
have allowed them to bypass their field
research concerning grazer control 









2. Which of the following, if true, would call into
question Hardy‘s principle of animal exclusion?
(A) Zooplankton are not the only organisms
that are affected by phytoplankton
repellents.
(B) Zooplankton exclusion is unrelated to
phytoplankton population density.
(C) Zooplankton population density is higher
during some parts of the year than during
others.
(D) Net phytoplankton are more likely to
exclude zooplankton than are
nannoplankton.
(E) Phytoplankton numbers can be strongly
affected by environmental factors.

For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


3. The author would be likely to agree with
which of the following statements regarding
the pressure of grazers on phytoplankton
numbers?

A Grazing pressure can vary according to the
individual type of zooplankton.
B Grazing pressure can be lower in nutrient-poor lakes
than in bog lakes.
C Grazing tends to exert about the same
pressure as does temperature.
 













































































25
 









4. It can be inferred from the passage that one way
in which many of the early researchers on grazer
control could have improved their data would
have been to
(A) emphasize the effects of temperature, rather
than of light, on phytoplankton
(B) disregard nannoplankton in their analysis of
phytoplankton numbers
(C) collect phytoplankton of all sizes before
analyzing the extent of phytoplankton
concentration
(D) recognize that phytoplankton other than net
phytoplankton could be collected in a net
(E) understand the crucial significance of net
phytoplankton in the diet of zooplankton

5. According to the passage, Hargrave and Geen
did which of the following in their experiments?
(A) They compared the grazing rates of
individual zooplankton species in the
laboratory with the natural grazing rates
of these species.
(B) The hypothesized about the population
density of grazers in natural habitats by
using data concerning the population
density of grazers in the laboratory.
(C) They estimated the community grazing rates
of zooplankton in the laboratory by using
data concerning the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton.
(D) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
data concerning the known population
density of phytoplankton.
(E) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
laboratory data concerning the grazing
rates of individual zooplankton species. 









The belief that art originates in intuitive rather than
rational faculties was worked out historically and
philosophically in the somewhat wearisome volumes of
Line Benedetto Croce, who is usually considered the originator
 









6. The passage suggests that which of the following
would most likely have occurred if linear perspective
and anatomy had not come to influence artistic
endeavor?
 
5
 
of a new aesthetic. Croce was, in fact, expressing a very
 
(A) The craftsmanship that shaped Gothic
 
old idea. Long before the Romantics stressed intuition
and self-expression, the frenzy of inspiration was
regarded as fundamental to art, but philosophers had
always assumed it must be controlled by law and by the
10 intellectual power of putting things into harmonious order.
This general philosophic concept of art was supported by
technical necessities. It was necessary to master certain
laws and to use intellect in order to build Gothic
cathedrals, or set up the stained glass windows of
 
architecture would have continued to
dominate artists‘ outlooks.
(B) Some other technical elements would have
been adopted to discipline artistic inspiration.
(C) Intellectual control over artistic inspiration
would not have influenced painting as it
did architecture.
(D) The role of intuitive inspiration would not
have remained fundamental to theories of
 
15
 
Chartres. When this bracing element of craftsmanship
ceased to dominate artists‘ outlook, new technical
elements had to be adopted to maintain the intellectual
element in art. Such were linear perspective and anatomy.
(156 words)
 














































26
 
artistic creation.
(E) The assumptions of aesthetic philosophers
before Croce would have been invalidated.


7. Select the sentence in the passage that indicates a
traditional assumption of aesthetic philosophers.

8. The author mentions ―linear perspective and
anatomy‖ in the last sentence in order to do
which of the following ?
(A) Expand his argument to include painting as
well as architecture
(B) Indicate his disagreement with Croce‘s
theory of the origins of art
(C) Support his point that rational order of
some kind has often seemed to discipline
artistic inspiration
(D) Explain the rational elements in Gothic
painting that corresponded to craftsmanship
in Gothic architecture
(E) Show the increasing sophistication of artists
after the Gothic period 









Nahuatl, like Greek and German, is a language that
allows the formation of extensive compounds. By the
combination of radicals or semantic elements, single
Line compound words can express complex conceptual
 









9. According to the passage, some abstract
universal ideas can be expressed in Nahuatl by
(A) taking away from a word any reference to
particular instances
 
5






10






15
 
relations, often of an abstract universal character.
The tlamatinime (―those who know‖) were able to
use this rich stock of abstract terms to express the
nuances of their thought. They also availed themselves
of other forms of expression with metaphorical meaning,
some probably original, some derived from Toltec
coinages. Of these forms the most characteristic in
Nahuatl is the juxtaposition of two words that, because
they are synonyms, associated terms, or even contraries,
complement each other to evoke one single idea. Used as
metaphor, the juxtaposed terms connote specific or
essential traits of the being they refer to, introducing a
mode of poetry as an almost habitual form of expression.
 
(B) removing a word from its associations with
other words
(C) giving a word a new and opposite meaning
(D) putting various meaningful elements
together in one word
(E) turning each word of a phrase into a poetic
metaphor


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


10. It can be inferred solely from the information
in the passage EXCEPT that
 
(140 words)
A all abstract universal ideas are ideas of
complex relations
B some record or evidence of the thought of
the tlamatinime exists
C metaphors are always used in Nahuatl to
express abstract conceptual relationships































27 









Since science tries to deal with reality, even the most
precise sciences normally work with more or less
imperfectly understood approximations toward which
Line scientists must maintain an appropriate skepticism. Thus,
 









11. According to the passage, scientists are skeptical
toward their equations because scientists
(A) work to explain real, rather than theoretical
or simplified, situations
 
5






10






15






20
 
for instance, it may come as a shock to mathematicians to
learn that the Schrodinger equation for the hydrogen atom
is not a literally correct description of this atom, but only
an approximation to a somewhat more correct equation
taking account of spin, magnetic dipole, and relativistic
effects; and that this corrected equation is itself only an
imperfect approximation to an infinite set of quantum
field-theoretical equations. Physicists, looking at the
original Schrodinger equation, learn to sense in it the
presence of many invisible terms in addition to the
differential terms visible, and this sense inspires an
entirely appropriate disregard for the purely technical
features of the equation. This very healthy skepticism is
foreign to the mathematical approach. Mathematics must
deal with well-defined situations. Thus, mathematicians
depend on an intellectual effort outside of mathematics
for the crucial specification of the approximation that
 
(B) know that well-defined problems are often
the most difficult to solve
(C) are unable to express their data in terms of
multiple variables
(D) are unwilling to relax the axioms they have
developed
(E) are unable to accept mathematical
explanations of natural phenomena


12. The author implies that scientists develop a
healthy skepticism because they are aware that
(A) mathematicians are better able to solve
problems than are scientists
(B) changes in axiomatic propositions will
inevitably undermine scientific arguments
(C) well-defined situations are necessary for the
design of reliable experiments
 
mathematics is to take literally.
 
(177 words)
 




































28
 
(D) mathematical solutions can rarely be
applied to real problems
(E) some factors in most situations must remain
unknown 










Exercise 6
 



Some modern anthropologists hold that biological
evolution has shaped not only human morphology but
also human behavior. The role those anthropologists
Line ascribe to evolution is not of dictating the details of
 



1. Which of the following most probably provides
an appropriate analogy from human morphol-
ogy for the ―details‖ versus ―constraints‖
distinction made in the passage in relation to
 
5






10






15






20
 
human behavior but one of imposing constraints—
ways of feeling, thinking, and acting that ―come natu-
rally‖ in archetypal situations in any culture. Our
―frailties‖ –emotions and motives such as rage, fear,
greed, gluttony, joy, lust, love—may be a very mixed
assortment, but they share at least one immediate
quality: we are, as we say, ―in the grip‖ of them. And
thus they give us our sense of constraints.
Unhappily, some of those frailties—our need for
ever-increasing security among them—are presently
maladaptive. Yet beneath the overlay of cultural
detail, they, too, are said to be biological in direction,
and therefore as natural to us as are our appendixes.
We would need to comprehend thoroughly their
adaptive origins in order to understand how badly they
guide us now. And we might then begin to resist their
pressure.
 























































29
 
human behavior?
(A) The ability of most people to see all the
colors of the visible spectrum as against
most people‘s inability to name any but
the primary colors
(B) The ability of even the least fortunate
people to show compassion as against
people‘s inability to mask their feelings
completely
(C) The ability of some people to dive to great
depths as against most people‘s inability
to swim long distances
(D) The psychological profile of those people
who are able to delay gratification as
against people‘s inability to control their
lives completely
(E) The greater lung capacity of mountain
peoples that helps them live in oxygen-poor
air as against people‘s inability to fly
without special apparatus

2. It can be inferred that in his discussion of
maladaptive frailties the author assumes that
(A) evolution does not favor the emergence of
adaptive characteristics over the emergence
of maladaptive ones
(B) any structure or behavior not positively
adaptive is regarded as transitory in
evolutionary theory
(C) maladaptive characteristics, once fixed,
make the emergence of other maladaptive
characteristics more likely
(D) the designation of a characteristic as being
maladaptive must always remain highly
tentative
(E) changes in the total human environment can
outpace evolutionary change 










The molecules of carbon dioxide in the Earth‘s
atmosphere affect the heat balance of the Earth by
acting as a one-way screen. Although these molecules
Line allow radiation at visible wavelengths, where most of
 










3. According to the passage, the greatest part of
the solar energy that reaches the Earth is
(A) concentrated in the infrared spectrum
(B) concentrated at visible wavelengths
 
5






10
 
the energy of sunlight is concentrated, to pass
through, they absorb some of the longer-wavelength,
infrared emissions radiated from the Earth‘s surface,
radiation that would otherwise be transmitted back
into space. For the Earth to maintain a constant aver age
temperature, such emissions from the planet must
balance incoming solar radiation. If there were no car-bon
dioxide in the atmosphere, heat would escape from the
Earth much more easily. The surface temperature would
be so much lower that the oceans might be a solid mass
 
(C) absorbed by carbon dioxide molecules
(D) absorbed by atmospheric water vapor
(E) reflected back to space by snow and ice


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


4. According to the passage, atmospheric carbon
dioxide performs which of the following functions
A absorbing radiation at visible wavelengths
 
15
 
of ice.
 
(120 words)
 
B absorbing outgoing radiation from the Earth
 
C helping to retain heat near the Earth‘s surface










































30 










Initially the Vinaver theory that Malory‘s eight
romances, once thought to be fundamentally unified.
were in fact eight independent works produced both a
Line sense of relief and an unpleasant shock. Vinaver‘s
 










For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


5. It can be inferred from the passage that the author
 
5






10






15
 
theory comfortably explained away the apparent
contradictions of chronology and made each romance
independently satisfying. It was, however, disagreeable
to find that what had been thought of as one book was
now eight books. Part of this response was the natural
reaction to the disturbance of set ideas. Nevertheless,
even now, after lengthy consideration of the theory‘s
refined but legitimate observations, one cannot avoid
the conclusion that the eight romances are only one
work. It is not quite a matter of disagreeing with the
theory of independence, but of rejecting its implications:
that the romances may be taken in any or no particular
order, that they have no cumulative effect, and that they
are as separate as the works of a modern novelist.
(154 words)
 




























































31
 
believes which of the following about Malory‘s
works?


A There are meaningful links between and
among the romances.
B The subtleties of the romances are obscured
when they are taken as one work.
C Any contradictions in chronology among the
romances are less important than their over-
all unity.


6. The author of the passage concedes which of the
following about the Vinaver theory?
(A) It gives a clearer understanding of the unity of
Malory‘s romances.
(B) It demonstrates the irrationality of considering
Malory‘s romances to be unified.
(C) It establishes acceptable links between Malory‘s
romances and modern novels.
(D) It unifies earlier and later theories concerning
the chronology of Malory‘s romances.
(E) It makes valid and subtle comments about
Malory‘s romances.


7. Select the sentence in the passage that suggests that, in
evaluating the Vinaver theory, some critics were
initially biased by previous interpretations of Malory‘s
work. 








The historian Frederick J. Turner wrote in the 1890‘s
that the agrarian discontent that had been developing
steadily in the United States since about 1870 had been
Line precipitated by the closing of the internal frontier--that is,
 









9. According to the author, changes in the
conditions of international trade resulted in an
(A) underestimation of the amount of new land
that was being famed in the United States
 
5






10






15






20
 
the depletion of available new land needed for further
expansion of the American farming system. Actually,
however, new lands were taken up for farming in the
United States throughout and beyond the nineteenth
century. The emphasis of the presumed disappearance of
the American frontier obscured the great importance of
changes in the conditions and consequences of
international trade that occurred during the second half of
the nineteenth century. Huge tracts of land were being
settled and farmed in Argentina, Australia, Canada, and in
the American West, and these areas were joined with one
another and with the countries of Europe into an
interdependent market system. Consequently, agrarian
depressions no longer were local or national in scope, and
they struck several nations whose internal frontiers had
not vanished or were not about to vanish. Between the
early 1870‘s and the 1890‘s, the mounting agrarian
discontent in America paralleled the almost uninterrupted
decline in the prices of American agricultural products on
foreign markets.
(198 words)

8. The author is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that a certain interpretation is
better supported by the evidence than is
an alternative explanation
(B) developing an alternative interpretation by
using sources of evidence that formerly
had been unavailable
(C) questioning the accuracy of the evidence
that most scholars have used to counter
the author‘s own interpretation
(D) reviewing the evidence that formerly had
been thought to obscure a valid
interpretation
(E) presenting evidence in support of a
controversial version of an earlier
interpretation.
 































































32
 
(B) underutilization of relatively small but rich
plots of land
(C) overexpansion of the world transportation
network for shipping agricultural
products
(D) extension of agrarian depressions beyond
national boundaries
(E) emphasis on the importance of market
forces in determining the prices of
agricultural products

10. The author implies that, after certain territories
and countries had been joined into an
interdependent market system in the
nineteenth century, agrarian depressions
within that system
(A) spread to several nations, excluding those in
which the internal frontier remained open
(B) manifested themselves in several nations,
including those in which new land
remained available for farming
(C) slowed down the pace of new technological
developments in international
communications and transportation
(D) affected the local and national prices of the
nonagricultural products of several nations
(E) encouraged several nations to sell more of
their agricultural products on foreign
markets

11. The author‘s argument implies that, compared
to the yearly price changes that actually
occurred on foreign agricultural markets during
the 1880‘s, American farmers would have most
preferred yearly price changes that were
(A) much smaller and in the same direction
(B) much smaller but in the opposite direction
(C) slightly smaller and in the same direction
(D) similar in size but in the opposite direction
(E) slightly greater and in the same direction 









When the same parameters and quantitative theory
are used to analyze both termite colonies and troops
of rhesus macaques, we will have a unified science of
sociobiology. I have been increasingly impressed with the
functional similarities between insect and vertebrate
societies and less so with the structural differences that
seem, at first glance, to constitute such an immense gulf
between them. Consider termites and macaques. Both
form cooperative groups that occupy territories. In both
kinds of society there is a well-marked division of labor.
Members of both groups communicate to each other
hunger, alarm, hostility, caste status or rank, and
reproductive status. From the specialist‘s point of view,
this comparison may at first seem facile—or worse. But it
is out of such deliberate oversimplification that the
 









12. Which of the following best summarizes the
author‘s main point?
(A) Oversimplified comparisons of animal
societies could diminish the likelihood of
developing a unified science of
sociobiology.
(B) Understanding the ways in which animals as
different as termites and rhesus macaques
resemble each other requires train in
both biology and sociology.
(C) Most animals organize themselves into
societies that exhibit patterns of group
behavior similar to those of human
societies.
(D) Animals as different as termites and rhesus
 
beginnings of a general theory are made.
 
(134 words)
 













































33
 
macaques follow certain similar and
predictable patterns of behavior.
(E) A study of the similarities between insect
and vertebrate societies could provide the
basis for a unified science of sociobiology.


13. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
suggests that There are significant structural
differences
between insect and vertebrate societies. 










Exercise 7
 




Hydrogeology is a science dealing with the properties,
distribution, and circulation of water on the surface of the
land, in the soil and underlying rocks, and
 




1. It can be inferred that which of the following
is most likely to be the subject of study by a
geohydrologist?
 
Line
5






10
 
in the atmosphere. The term ―geohydrology‖ is
sometimes erroneously used as a synonym for
―hydrogeology.‖ Geohydrology is concerned with
underground water. There are many formations that
contain water but are not part of the hydrologic cycle
because of geologic changes that have isolated them
underground. These systems are properly termed
geohydrologic but not hydrogeologic. Only when a
system possesses natural or artificial boundaries that
associate the water within it with the hydrologic cycle
may the entire system properly be termed hydrogeologic.
(107 words)
 
























































34
 
(A) Soft, porous rock being worn away by a
waterfall
(B) Water depositing minerals on the banks of a
gorge through which the water runs
(C) The trapping of water in a sealed
underground rock cavern through the action
of an earthquake
(D) Water becoming unfit to drink through the
release of pollutants into it from a
manufacturing plant
(E) The changing course of a river channel as
the action of the water wears away the rocks
past which the river flows

2. The author refers to ―many formations‖ primarily in
order to
(A) clarify a distinction
(B) introduce a subject
(C) draw an analogy
(D) emphasize a similarity
(E) resolve a conflict 









In the 1750‘s, when salons were firmly established
in France, some English women, who called
themselves ―Bluestocking,‖ followed the example of
 









4. The author refers to differences in social back-
ground between salonnieres and Bluestockings
in order to do which of the following?
 
Line
5






10






15
 
the salonnieres (French salon hostesses) and formed
their own salons. Most Bluestockings did not wish to
mirror the salonnieres; they simply desired to adapt a
proven formula to their own purpose—the elevation
of women‘s status through moral and intellectual
training. Differences in social orientation and back-
ground can account perhaps for differences in the
nature of French and English salons. The French
salon incorporated aristocratic attitudes that exalted
courtly pleasure and emphasized artistic accomplish-
ments. The English Bluestockings, originating from a
more modest background, emphasized learning and
work over pleasure. Accustomed to the regimented life
of court circles, salonnieres tended toward formality
in their salons. The English women, though somewhat
puritanical, were more casual in their approach.
(139 words)


3. According to the passage, a significant distinction
between the salonnieres and Bluestockings was in the
way each group regarded which of the following?
(A) The value of acquiring knowledge
(B) The role of pleasure in the activities of the
literary salon
(C) The desirability of a complete break with
societal traditions
(D) The inclusion of women of different back-
grounds in the salons
(E) The attainment of full social and political
equality with men
 
































































35
 
(A) Criticize the view that their choices of
activities were significantly influenced by
male salon members
(B) Discuss the reasons why literary salons in
France were established before those in
England
(C) Question the importance of the
Bluestockings in shaping public attitudes
toward educated women
(D) Refute the argument that the French salons
had little influence over the direction the
English salons took
(E) Explain the differences in atmosphere and
style in their salons


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


5. Which of the following statements is most
compatible with the principles of the salonnieres
as described in the passage?


A Devotion to pleasure and art is justified in
itself.
B Men should be excluded from groups of
women‘s rights supporters.
C Women should aspire to be not only
educated but independent as well. 









The use of heat pumps has been held back
largely by skepticism about advertisers‘ claims that
heat pumps can provide as many as two units of
thermal energy for each unit of electrical energy
used, thus apparently contradicting the principle of
 









6. If the author‘s assessment of the use of heat pumps is
correct, which of the following best expresses the
lesson that advertisers should learn from this case?
(A) Do not make exaggerated claims about the
products you are trying to promote.
 
energy conservation.
 
(43 words)
 




























































36
 
(B) Focus your advertising campaign on vague
analogies and veiled implications instead of
on facts.
(C) Do not use facts in your advertising that will
strain the prospective client‘s ability to
believe.
(D) Do not assume in your advertising that the
prospective clients know even the most
elementary scientific principles.
(E) Concentrate your advertising firmly on financially
relevant issues such as price discounts and
efficiency of operation. 









All of Francoise Duparc‘s surviving paintings blend
portraiture and genre. Her subjects appear to be acquain-
tances whom she has asked to pose; she has captured
Line both their self-consciousness and the spontaneity of their
 









7. According to the passage, modern viewers are not
likely to value which of the following qualities in a
painting?
(A) The technical elements of the painting
 
5






10






15






20
 
everyday activities, the depiction of which characterizes
genre painting. But genre painting, especially when it
portrayed members of the humblest classes, was never
popular in eighteenth-century France. The Le Nain
brothers and Georges de La Tour, who also chose such
themes, were largely ignored. Their present high standing
is due to a different, more democratic political climate
and to different aesthetic values: we no longer require
artists to provide ideal images of humanity for our moral
edification but rather regard such idealization as a falsifi-
cation of the truth. Duparc gives no improving message
and discreetly refrains from judging her subjects. In brief,
her works neither elevate nor instruct. This restraint
largely explains her lack of popular success during her
lifetime, even if her talent did not go completely unrecog-
nized by her eighteenth-century French contemporaries.
 






























































37
 
(B) The spontaneity of the painting
(C) The moral lesson imparted by the painting
(D) The degree to which the painting realistically
depicts its subject
(E) The degree to which the artist‘s personality is
revealed in the painting


8. If the history of Duparc‘s artistic reputation were
to follow that of the Le Nain brothers and Georges
de La Tour, present-day assessments of her work
would be likely to contain which of the following?
(A) An evaluation that accords high status to her
work
(B) Acknowledgement of her technical expertise
but dismissal of her subject matter as trivial
(C) Agreement with assessments made in her own
time but acknowledgements of the excep-
tional quality of a few of her paintings
(D) Placement of her among the foremost artists of
her century
(E) A reclassification of her work as portraiture
rather than genre painting


9. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
indicates that aesthetic judgments can be influenced
by the political beliefs of those making the judgment. 









Flatfish, such as the flounder, are among the few
vertebrates that lack approximate bilateral symmetry
(symmetry in which structures to the left and right of the
Line body‘s midline are mirror images). Most striking among
 









other adaptively significant characteristic. This
50 situation is one commonly encountered by
evolutionary biologists, who must often decide
whether a characteristic is adaptive or selectively
 
5






10






15






20






25






30






35






40






45
 
the many asymmetries evident in an adult flatfish is eye
placement: before maturity one eye migrates, so that in
an adult flatfish both eyes are on the same side of the
head. While in most species with asymmetries virtually
all adults share the same asymmetry, members of the
starry flounder species can be either left-eyed (both eyes
on the left side of head) or right-eyed. In the waters
between the United States and Japan, the starry flounder
populations vary from about 50 percent left-eyed off the
United States West Coast, through about 70 percent
left-eyed halfway between the United States and Japan,
to nearly 100 percent left-eyed off the Japanese coast.
Biologists call this kind of gradual variation over a
certain geographic rang a ―cline‖ and interpret clines as
strong indications that the variation is adaptive, a
response to environmental differences. For the starry
flounder this interpretation implies that a geometric
difference (between fish that are mirror images of one
another) is adaptive, that left-eyedness in the Japanese
starry flounder has been selected for, which provokes a
perplexing questions: what is the selective advantage in
having both eyes on one side rather than on the other?
The ease with which a fish can reverse the effect of
the sidedness of its eye asymmetry simply by turning
around has caused biologists to study internal anatomy,
especially the optic nerves, for the answer. In all flatfish
the optic nerves cross, so that the right optic nerve is
joined to the brain‘s left side and vice versa. This
crossing introduces an asymmetry, as one optic nerve
must cross above or below the other. G. H. Parker
reasoned that if, for example, a flatfish‘s left eye
migrated when the right optic nerve was on top, there
would be a twisting of nerves, which might be
mechanically disadvantageous. For starry flounders, then,
the left-eyed variety would be selected against, since in a
starry flounder the left optic nerve is uppermost.
The problem with the above explanation is that the
Japanese starry flounder population is almost exclusively
left-eyed, and natural selection never promotes a purely
less advantageous variation. As other explanations
proved equally untenable, biologists concluded that there
is no important adaptive difference between left-
eyedness and right-eyedness, and that the two
characteristics are genetically associated with some
 































































38
 
neutral. As for the left-eyed and right-eyed flatfish,
their difference, however striking, appears to be an
55 evolutionary red herring.
(456 words) 









10. According to the passage, starry flounder differ
from most other species of flatfish in that starry
flounder
(A) are not basically bilaterally symmetric
(B) do not become asymmetric until adulthood
(C) do not all share the same asymmetry
(D) have both eyes on the same side of the head
(E) tend to cluster in only certain geographic regions

For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
11. The author would be most likely to agree
with which of the following statements
about left-eyedness and right-eyedness in
the starry flounder?
A They are adaptive variations by the starry flounder
to environmental differences.
B They do not seem to give obvious selective
advantages to the starry flounder.
C They occur in different proportions in different
locations.
 













































































39
 









12. According to the passage, a possible disadvantage
associated with eye migration in flatfish is that the
optic nerves can
(A) adhere to one another
(B) detach from the eyes
(C) cross
(D) stretch
(E) twist

13. Which of the following best describes the
organization of the passage as a whole?
(A) A phenomenon is described and an
interpretation presented and rejected.
(B) A generalization is made and supporting
evidence is supplied and weighed.
(C) A contradiction is noted and a resolution is
suggested and then modified.
(D) A series of observations is presented
and explained in terms of the dominant
theory.
(E) A hypothesis is introduced and corroborated
in the light of new evidence. 










Exercise 8
 




Heat pumps circulate a fluid refrigerant that cycles
alternatively from its liquid phase to its vapor phase in a
closed loop. The refrigerant, starting as a low-
Line temperature, low-pressure vapor, enters a compressor
 




1. According to the passage, the role of the flow
restriction in a heat pump is to
(A) measure accurately the flow rate of the
refrigerant mass at that point
 
5






10






15
 
driven by an electric motor. The refrigerant leaves the
compressor as a hot, dense vapor and flows through a
heat exchanger called the condenser, which transfers
heat from the refrigerant to a body of air. Now the
refrigerant, as a high-pressure, cooled liquid, confronts
a flow restriction which causes the pressure to drop. As
the pressure falls, the refrigerant expands and partially
vaporizes, becoming chilled. It then passes
through a
second heat exchanger, the evaporator, which transfers
heat from the air to the refrigerant, reducing the
temperature of this second body of air.
(126 words)
 























































40
 
(B) compress and heat the refrigerant vapor
(C) bring about the evaporation and cooling of
refrigerant
(D) exchange heat between the refrigerant and the
air at that point
(E) reverse the direction of refrigerant flow when
needed 









Traditionally, the study of history has had fixed
boundaries and focal points—periods, countries,
dramatic events, and great leaders. It also has had clear
Line and firm notions of scholarly procedure: how one
 









2. Which of the following best states the main point of
the passage?
(A) The approach of psychohistorians to historical
study is currently in vogue even though it
 
5






10






15






20
 
inquires into a historical problem, how one presents and
documents one‘s findings, what constitutes admissible
and adequate proof. The recent popular psychohistory,
committed to Freudian psychoanalysis, takes a radically
different approach. This commitment precludes a
commitment to history as historians have always
understood it. Psychohistory derives its ―facts‖ not from
history, the detailed records of events and their
consequences, but from psychoanalysis of the
individuals who made history, and deduces its theories
not from this or that instance in their lives, but from a
view of human nature that transcends history. It denies
the basic criterion of historical evidence: that evidence
be publicly accessible to, and therefore assessable by,
all historians. Psychohistorians, convinced of the
absolute rightness of their own theories, are also
convinced that theirs is the ―deepest‖ explanation of any
event that other explanations fall short of the truth.
 






























































41
 
lacks the rigor and verifiability of traditional
historical method.
(B) Traditional historians can benefit from studying
the techniques and findings of psychohis-
torians.
(C) Areas of sociological study such as childhood
and work are of little interest to traditional
historians.
(D) The psychological assessment of an individual‘s
behavior and attitudes is more informative
than the details of his or her daily life.
(E) History is composed of unique and nonrepeat-
ing events that must be individually analyzed
on the basis of publicly verifiable evidence.


3. The author of the passage puts the word ―deepest‖ in
quotation marks most probably in order to
(A) question the usefulness of psychohistorians‘
insights into traditional historical scholarship
(B) draw attention to a contradiction in the
psychohistorians‘ method
(C) emphasize the major difference between the
traditional historians‘ method and
that of psychohistorians
(D) disassociate her opinion of the psychohistorians‘
claims from her opinion of their method
(E) signal her reservations about the accuracy
of psychohistorians‘ claims for their work 










Eight percent of the Earth‘s crust is aluminum, and
there are hundreds of aluminum-bearing minerals and
vast quantities of the rocks that contain them. The best
Line aluminum ore is bauxite, defined as aggregates of alumi-
 










4. The author implies that a mineral must either be or
readily supply which of the following in order to be
classified as an aluminum ore?
(A) An aggregate
 
5






10






15
 
nous minerals, more or less impure, in which aluminum
is present as hydrated oxides. Bauxite is the richest of all
those aluminous rocks that occur in large quantities, and
it yields alumina, the intermediate product required for
the production of aluminum. Alumina also occurs natu-
rally as the mineral corundum, but corundum is not
found in large deposits of high purity, and therefore it is
an impractical source for making aluminum. Most of
the many abundant nonbauxite aluminous minerals are
silicates, and, like all silicate minerals, they are
refractory, resistant to analysis, and extremely difficult
to process. The aluminum silicates are therefore
generally unsuitable alternatives to bauxite because
considerably more energy is required to extract alumina
 
(B) Bauxite
(C) Alumina
(D) Corundum
(E) An aluminum silicate


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
5. The passage supplies information for answering
all of the following questions regarding aluminous
minerals
A Are aluminum-bearing nonbauxite minerals
plentiful?
B Do the aluminous minerals found in bauxite
contain hydrated oxides?
 
from them.
 
(153 words)
 







































42
 
C Are aluminous hydrated oxides found in rocks?


6. The author implies that corundum would be used to
produce aluminum if
(A) corundum could be found that is not contami-
nated by silicates
(B) the production of alumina could be eliminated
as an intermediate step in manufacturing alu-
minum
(C) many large deposits of very high quality corun-
dum were to be discovered
(D) new technologies were to make it possible to
convert corundum to a silicate
(E) manufacturers were to realize that the world‘s
supply of bauxite is not unlimited 









Tillie Olsen‘s fiction and essays have been widely
 
and rightly acknowledged, particularly by contemporary
feminists, as major contributions to American
Line literature. Yet few of Olsen‘s readers realize the extent
 
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
7. According to the author, which of the following
 
5






10






15
 
to which her vision and choice of subject are rooted in
an earlier literary heritage—the tradition of radical
political thought, mostly socialist and anarchist, of the
1910‘s and 1920‘s, and the Old Left tradition of the
1930‘s. I do not mean that one can adequately explain
the eloquence of her work in terms of its political
origins, or that left-wing politics were the single most
important influence on it. My point is that its central
consciousness—its profound understanding of class and
gender as shaping influences on people‘s lives—owes
much to that earlier literary heritage.
(126 words)
 






























































43
 
is NOT true of the heritage mentioned in the passage?
A It emphasizes gender as the determinate
influence on people‘s lives.
B It includes political traditions that span three
decades of the twentieth century.
C It has been the most important influence on
Olsen‘s work.


8. Select the sentence in which the author denies possible
interpretations of an earlier assertion. 









Our visual perception depends on the reception of
energy reflecting or radiating from that which we wish
to perceive. If our eyes could receive and measure
Line infinitely delicate sense-data, we could perceive the
 









9. Which of the following describes a situation
most analogous to the situation discussed in
the last sentence?
(A) A mathematician can only solve problems
 
5






10
 
world with infinite precision. The natural limits of our
eyes have, of course, been extended by mechanical
instruments; telescopes and microscopes, for example,
expand our capabilities greatly. There is, however, an
ultimate limit beyond which no instrument can take us;
this limit is imposed by our inability to receive sense-
data smaller than those conveyed by an individual
quantum of energy.
(97 words)
 






























































44
 
the solution of which can be deduced
from known axioms.
(B) An animal can respond to no command
that is more complicated syntactically
than any it has previously received.
(C) A viewer who has not learned, at least
intuitively, the conventions of painting,
cannot understand perspective in a
drawing.
(D) A sensitized film will record no detail on a
scale that is smaller than the grain of the
film.
(E) A shadow cast on a screen by an opaque
object will have a sharp edge only if the
light source is small or very distant. 









Of Homer‘s two epic poems, the Odyssey has always
been more popular than the Iliad, perhaps because it
includes more features of mythology that are accessible
Line to readers. Its subject (to use Maynard Mack‘s
 









10. The author uses Mack‘s ―categories‖ (lines 4-5)
most probably in order to
(A) argue that the Iliad should replace the Odyssey
as the more popular poem
 
5






10






15
 
categories) is ―life-as-spectacle,‖ for readers, diverted
by its various incidents, observe its hero Odysseus
primarily from without; the tragic Iliad, however, presents
―life-as- experience‖: readers are asked to identify with
the mind of Achilles, whose motivations render him a
not particularly likable hero. In addition, the Iliad, more
than the Odyssey, suggests the complexity of the gods‘
involvement in human actions, and to the extent that
modern readers find this complexity a needless
complication, the Iliad is less satisfying than the
Odyssey, with its simpler ‗scheme‘ of divine justice.
Finally, since the Iliad presents a historically verifiable
action, Troy‘s siege, the poem raises historical
questions that are absent from the Odyssey’s blithely
imaginative world.
(148 words)
 






























































45
 
(B) indicate Mack‘s importance as a commentator
on the Iliad and the Odyssey
(C) suggest one way in which the Iliad and the
Odyssey can be distinguished
(D) point out some of the difficulties faced by
readers of the Iliad and the Odyssey
(E) demonstrate that the Iliad and the Odyssey
can best be distinguished by comparing their
respective heroes


11. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) distinguishing arguments
(B) applying classifications
(C) initiating a debate
(D) resolving a dispute
(E) developing a contrast


12. It can be inferred from the passage that a reader of
the Iliad is likely to have trouble identifying with the
poem‘s hero for which of the following reasons?
(A) The hero is eventually revealed to be unheroic.
(B) The hero can be observed by the reader
only from without.
(C) The hero‘s psychology is not historically
verifiable.
(D) The hero‘s emotions often do not seem
appealing to the reader.
(E) The hero‘s emotions are not sufficiently
various to engage the reader‘s attention. 










[This page is intentionally left blank. ]

































































46 










Exercise 9
 



Jean Wagner‘s most enduring contribution to the
study of Afro-American poetry is his insistence that it be
analyzed in a religious, as well as secular, frame of
Line reference. The appropriateness of such an approach may
 




2. All of the following aspects of Afro-American
poetry are referred to in the passage as having been
influenced by Wesleyan hymnals EXCEPT
(A) subject matter
 
5






10






15
 
seem self-evident for a tradition commencing with
spirituals and owing its early forms, rhythms, vocabulary,
and evangelical fervor to Wesleyan hymnals. But before
Wagner a secular outlook that analyzed Black poetry
solely within the context of political and social protest
was dominant in the field.
It is Wagner who first demonstrated the essential
fusion of racial and religious feeling in Afro-American
poetry. The two, he argued, form a symbiotic union in
which religious feelings are often applied to racial issues
and racial problems are often projected onto a
metaphysical plane. Wagner found this most eloquently
illustrated in the Black spiritual, where the desire for
freedom in this world and the hope for salvation in the
next are inextricably intertwined.
(159 words)



1. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) contrast the theories of Jean Wagner with
those of other contemporary critics
(B) document the influence of Jean Wagner on the
development of Afro-American poetry
(C) explain the relevance of Jean Wagner ‘s work to
the study of Afro-American religion
(D) indicate the importance of Jean Wagner ‘s
analysis of Afro-American poetry
(E) present the contributions of Jean Wagner to
the study of Black spirituals
 























































47
 
(B) word choice
(C) rhythm
(D) structure
(E) tone


3. It can be inferred from the passage that, before
Wagner, most students of Afro-American poetry did
which of the following?
(A) Contributed appreciably to the transfer of
political protest from Afro-American poetry to
direct political action.
(B) Ignored at least some of the historical roots of
Afro-American poetry.
(C) Analyzed fully the aspects of social protest
to be found in such traditional forms of Afro-
American poetry as the Black spiritual.
(D) Regarded as unimportant the development
of fervent emotionalism in a portion of Afro-
American poetry.
(E) Concentrated on the complex relations
between the technical elements in Afro-
American poetry and its political content. 








In the early 1950‘s, historians who studied
preindustrial Europe (which we may define here as
Europe in the period from roughly 1300 to 1800) began,
Line for the first time in large numbers, to investigate more
 









addition, aggregate population estimates are very
50 shaky, which makes it difficult for historians to
compare rates of crime per thousand in one decade of
the preindustrial period with rates in another decade.
 
5






10






15






20






25






30






35






40






45
 
of the preindustrial European population than the 2 or 3
percent who comprised the political and social elite: the
kings, generals, judges, nobles, bishops, and local
magnates who had hitherto usually filled history books.
One difficulty, however, was that few of the remaining
97 percent recorded their thoughts or had them
chronicled by contemporaries. Faced with this situation,
many historians based their investigations on the only
records that seemed to exist: birth, marriage, and death
records. As a result, much of the early work on the
nonelite was aridly statistical in nature; reducing the
vast majority of the population to a set of numbers was
hardly more enlightening than ignoring them altogether.
Historians still did not know what these people thought
or felt.
One way out of this dilemma was to turn to the
records of legal courts, for here the voices of the
nonelite can most often be heard, as witnesses, plaintiffs,
and defendants. These documents have acted as ―a point
of entry into the mental world of the poor.‖ Historians
such as Le Roy Ladurie have used the documents to
extract case histories, which have illuminated the
attitudes of different social groups (these attitudes
include, but are not confined to, attitudes toward crime
and the law) and have revealed how the authorities
administered justice. It has been societies that have had
a developed police system and practiced Roman law,
with its written depositions, whose court records have
yielded the most data to historians. In Anglo-Saxon
countries hardly any of these benefits obtain, but it has
still been possible to glean information from the study
of legal documents.
The extraction of case histories is not, however, the
only use to which court records may be put. Historians
who study preindustrial Europe have used the records to
establish a series of categories of crime and to quantify
indictments that were issued over a given number of
years. This use of the records does yield some
information about the nonelite, but this information
gives us little insight into the mental lives of the
nonelite. We also know that the number of indictments
in preindustrial Europe bears little relation to the
number of actual criminal acts, and we strongly suspect
that the relationship has varied widely over time. In
 































































48
 
Given these inadequacies, it is clear why the case
history use of court records is to be preferred.
(473 words) 








4. The author suggests that, before the early 1950‘s,
most historians who studied preindustrial Europe
did which of the following?
(A) Failed to make distinctions among members of the
preindustrial European political and social elite.
(B) Used investigatory methods that were almost
exclusively statistical in nature.
(C) Inaccurately estimated the influence of the
preindustrial European political and social elite.
(D) Confined their work to a narrow range of the
preindustrial European population.
(E) Tended to rely heavily on birth, marriage, and
death records.


5. According to the passage, the case histories
extracted by historians have
(A) scarcely illuminated the attitudes of the political
and social elite
(B) indicated the manner in which those in power
apportioned justice
(C) focused almost entirely on the thoughts and feel-
ings of different social groups toward crime and
the law
(D) been considered the first kind of historical
writing that utilized the records of legal courts
(E) been based for the most part on the trial testimony
of police and other legal authorities
 













































































49
 









6. It can be inferred from the passage that much of the
early work by historians on the European nonelite
of the preindustrial period might have been more
illuminating if these historians had
(A) used different methods of statistical analysis to
investigate the nonelite
(B) been more successful in identifying the attitudes
of civil authorities, especially those who
administered justice, toward the nonelite
(C) been able to draw on more accounts, written by
contemporaries of the nonelite, that described
what this nonelite thought
(D) relied more heavily on the personal records left
by members of the European political and
social elite who lived during the period in
question
(E) been more willing to base their research on the
birth, marriage, and death records of the
nonelite


7. It can be inferred from the passage that a historian
who wished to compare crime rates per thousand
in a European city in one decade of the fifteenth
century with crime rates in another decade of that
century would probably be most aided by better
information about which of the following?
(A) The causes of unrest in the city during the two
decades
(B) The aggregate number of indictments in the
city nearest to the city under investigation
during the two decades
(C) The number of people who lived in the city
during each of the decades under investigation
(D) The mental attitudes of criminals in the city,
including their feelings about authority, during
each of the decades under investigation
(E) The possibilities for a member of the city‘s
nonelite to become a member of the political
and social elite during the two decades 










Mycorrhizal fungi infect more plants than do any
other fungi and are necessary for many plants to thrive,
but they have escaped widespread investigation until
Line recently for two reasons. First, the symbiotic association
 










8. Which of the following most accurately describes
the passage?
(A) A description of a replicable experiment
(B) A summary report of new findings
 
5






10






15
 
is so well-balanced that the roots of host plants show no
damage even when densely infected. Second, the fungi
cannot as yet be cultivated in the absence of a living
root. Despite these difficulties, there has been important
new work that suggests that this symbiotic association
can be harnessed to achieve more economical use of
costly superphosphate fertilizer and to permit better
exploitation of cheaper, less soluble rock phosphate.
Mycorrhizal benefits are not limited to improved
phosphate uptake in host plants. In legumes,
Mycorrhizal inoculation has increased nitrogen fixation
beyond levels achieved by adding phosphate fertilizer
alone. Certain symbiotic associations also increase the
host plant‘s resistance to harmful root fungi.
 




























































50
 
(C) A recommendation for abandoning a difficult
area of research
(D) A refutation of an earlier hypothesis
(E) A confirmation of earlier research


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
9. It can be inferred from the passage that which of
the following has NOT been a factor influencing the
extent to which research on mycorrhizal fungi has
progressed?
A Lack of a method for identifying mycorrhizal
fungi
B Difficulties surrounding laboratory production
of specimens for study
C Difficulties ensuing from the high cost and
scarcity of superphosphate fertilizers 








It is one of nature‘s great ironies that the availability
of nitrogen in the soil frequently sets an upper limit on
plant growth even though the plants‘ leaves are bathed
Line in a sea of nitrogen gas. The leguminous plants—among
 









10. Which of the following situations is most closely
analogous to the situation described by the author
as one of nature‘s great ironies?
(A) That of a farmer whose crops have failed
 
5
 
them crop plants such as soybeans, peas, alfalfa, and
clover—have solved the nitrogen supply problem by
entering into a symbiotic relationship with the bacterial
genus Rhizobium.
 






























































51
 
because the normal midseason rains did not
materialize and no preparations for
irrigation had been made
(B) That of a long-distance runner who loses a
marathon race because of a wrong turn that
cost him twenty seconds
(C) That of shipwrecked sailors at sea in a
lifeboat, with one flask of drinking water to
share among them
(D) That of a motorist who runs out of gas a mere
five miles from the nearest gas station
(E) That of travelers who want to reach their
destination as fast and as cheaply as possible,
but find that cost increases as travel speed
increases 









Throughout human history there have been many
stringent taboos concerning watching other people eat
or eating in the presence of others. There have been
Line attempts to explain these taboos in terms of
 









11. If the argument in the passage is valid, taboos
against eating in the presence of others who are
not also eating would be LEAST likely in a society
that
 
5






10






15
 
inappropriate social relationships either between those
who are involved and those who are not simultaneously
involved in the satisfaction of a bodily need, or
between those already satiated and those who appear
to be shamelessly gorging. Undoubtedly such elements
exist in the taboos, but there is an additional element
with a much more fundamental importance. In
prehistoric times, when food was so precious and the
on-lookers so hungry, not to offer half of the little food
one had was unthinkable, since every glance was a plea
for life.
(124 words)
 































































52
 
(A) had always had a plentiful supply of food
(B) emphasized the need to share worldly goods
(C) had a nomadic rather than an agricultural
way of life
(D) emphasized the value of privacy
(E) discouraged overindulgence

12. The author‘s hypothesis concerning the origin of
taboos against watching other people eat emphasizes
the
(A) general palatability of food
(B) religious significance of food
(C) limited availability of food
(D) various sources of food
(E) nutritional value of food

13. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
suggests that past attempts to explain some taboos
concerning eating are incomplete. 










Exercise 10
 




Currently, the paramount problem in the field of
biomaterials, the science of replacing diseased tissue with
human-made implants, is control over the interface, or
Line surface, between implanted biomaterials and living
 




1. According to the passage, the major problem
currently facing scientists in the field of bio-
materials is
(A) assessing and regulating the bonding
 
5






10






15






20
 
tissues. The physical properties of most tissues can be
matched by careful selection of raw materials: metals,
ceramics, or several varieties of polymer materials. Even
the requirement that biomaterials processed from these
materials be nontoxic to host tissue can be met by
techniques derived from studying the reactions of tissue
cultures to biomaterials or from short-term implants. But
achieving necessary matches in physical properties across
interfaces between living and non-living matter requires
knowledge of which molecules control the bonding of
cells to each other—an area that we have not yet explored
thoroughly. Although recent research has allowed us to
stabilize the tissue-biomaterial interface by controlling
either the chemical reactions or the microstructure of the
biomaterials, our fundamental understanding of how
implant devices adhere to tissues remains woefully
 
between host tissue and implants
(B) controlling the transfer of potentially toxic
materials across the interface of tissue
and implant
(C) discovering new materials from which to
construct implant devices
(D) deciding in what situations implants are
needed
(E) determining the importance of short-term
implants to long-term stability of tissue
implant interfaces


2. The passage suggests which of the following
about the recent research mentioned in the last
sentence ?
(A) It has solved one set of problems but has
 
incomplete.
 
(159 words)
 






























53
 
created another.
(B) It has concentrated on secondary concerns
but has ignored primary concerns.
(C) It has improved practical applications of
biomaterial technology without providing a
complete theoretical explanation of that
improvement.
(D) It has thoroughly investigated properties of
biomaterials but has paid little attention
to relevant characteristics of human tissue.
(E) It has provided considerable information on
short-term implant technology but little
on long-term implant technology. 









Islamic law is a particularly instructive example of
―sacred law.‖ Islamic law is a phenomenon so different
from all other forms of law—notwithstanding, of course,
Line a considerable and inevitable number of coincidences
 









merely existed discordance between application of the
50 sacred law and many of the regulations framed by
Islamic states; this antagonism varied according to place
and time.
 
5






10






15






20






25






30






35






40






45
 
with one or the other of them as far as subject matter and
positive enactment are concerned—that its study is
indispensable in order to appreciate adequately the full
range of possible legal phenomena. Even the two other
representatives of sacred law that are historically and
geographically nearest to it, Jewish law and Roman
Catholic canon law, are perceptibly different.
Both Jewish law and canon law are more uniform
than Islamic law. Though historically there is a
discernible break between Jewish law of the sovereign
state of ancient Israel and of the Diaspora (the dispersion
of Jewish people after the conquest of Israel), the spirit of
the legal matter in later parts of the Old Testament is very
close to that of the Talmud, one of the primary
codifications of Jewish law in the Diaspora. Islam, on the
other hand, represented a radical breakaway from the
Arab paganism that preceded it; Islamic law is the result
of an examination, from a religious angle, of legal subject
matter that was far from uniform, comprising as it did the
various components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and
numerous legal elements taken over from the non-Arab
peoples of the conquered territories. All this was unified
by being subjected to the same kind of religious scrutiny,
the impact of which varied greatly, being almost
nonexistent in some fields, and in others originating novel
institutions. This central duality of legal subject matter
and religious norm is additional to the variety of legal,
ethical, and ritual rules that is typical of sacred law.
In its relation to the secular state, Islamic law
differed from both Jewish and canon law. Jewish law was
buttressed by the cohesion of the community, reinforced
by pressure from outside; its rules are the direct
expression of this feeling of cohesion, tending toward the
accommodation of dissent. Canon and Islamic law, on the
contrary, were dominated by the dualism of religion and
state, where the state was not, in contrast with Judaism,
an alien power but the political expression of the same
religion. But the conflict between state and religion took
different forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle
for political power on the part of a tightly organized
ecclesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of its
political weapons. Islamic law, on the other hand, was
never supported by an organized institution; consequently,
there never developed an overt trial of strength. There
 































































54 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
3. The passage provides information to answer
which of the following questions EXCEPT?
A Does Islamic law depend on sources other
than Arab legal principles?
B What secular practices of Islamic states
conflicted with Islamic law?
C Is Jewish law more uniform than canon
law?


4. It can be inferred from the passage that the
application of Islamic law in Islamic states has
(A) systematically been opposed by groups who
believe it is contrary to their interests
(B) suffered irreparably from the lack of firm
institutional backing
(C) frequently been at odds with the legal
activity of government institutions
(D) remained unaffected by the political forces
operating alongside it
(E) benefited from the fact that it never
experienced a direct confrontation with
the state
 













































































55
 









5. Which of the following most accurately describes
the organization of the passage?
(A) A universal principle is advanced and then
discussed in relation to a particular
historical phenomenon.
(B) A methodological innovation is suggested
and then examples of its efficacy are
provided.
(C) A traditional interpretation is questioned
and then modified to include new data.
(D) A general opinion is expressed and then
supportive illustrations are advanced.
(E) A controversial viewpoint is presented and
then both supportive evidence and
contradictory evidence are cited.


6. The passage suggests that canon law differs
from Islamic law in that only canon law
(A) contains prescriptions that nonsacred legal
systems might regard as properly legal
(B) concerns itself with the duties of a person in
regard to the community as a whole
(C) was affected by the tension of the conflict
between religion and state
(D) developed in a political environment that
did not challenge its fundamental existence
(E) played a role in the direct confrontation
between institutions vying for power 









If a supernova (the explosion of a massive star) trig-
gered star formation from dense clouds of gas and dust,
and if the most massive star to be formed from the cloud
evolved into a supernova and triggered a new round of
star formation, and so on, then a chain of star-forming
regions would result. If many such chains were created
in a differentially rotating galaxy, the distribution of
stars would resemble the observed distribute in a
spiral galaxy.
This line of reasoning underlies an exciting new
theory of spiral-galaxy structure. A computer simulation
based on this theory has reproduced the appearance of
many spiral galaxies without assuming an underlying
density wave, the hallmark of the most widely accepted
theory of the large-scale structure of spiral galaxies.
That theory maintains that a density wave of spiral
form sweeps through the central plane of a galaxy,
compressing clouds of gas and dust, which collapse
 









8. The passage implies that, according to the new
theory of spiral-galaxy structure, a spiral galaxy can
be created by supernovas when the supernovas are
(A) producing an underlying density wave
(B) affected by a density wave of spiral form
(C) distributed in a spiral pattern
(D) located in the central plane of a galaxy
(E) located in a differentially rotating galaxy


9. Which of the following, if true, would most
discredit the new theory as described in the passage?
(A)The exact mechanism by which a star becomes
a supernova is not yet completely known
and may even differ for different stars.
(B) Chains of star-forming regions like those
postulated in the new theory have been
observed in the vicinity of dense clouds of
gas and dust.
 
into stars that form a spiral pattern.
 
(160 words)
 
(C) The most massive stars formed from supernova
explosions are unlikely to evolve into super-
 
7. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) describe what results when a supernova triggers
the creation of chains of star-forming regions
(B) propose a modification in the most widely
accepted theory of spiral-galaxy structure
(C) compare and contrast the roles of clouds of gas
and dust in two theories of spiral-galaxy
structure
(D) describe a new theory of spiral-galaxy structure
and contrast it with the most widely accepted
theory
(E) describe a new theory of spiral-galaxy structure
and discuss a reason why it is inferior to the
most widely accepted theory
 





































56
 
novas.
(D) Computer simulations of supernovas provide a
poor picture of what occurs just before a
supernova explosion.
(E) A density wave cannot compress clouds of gas
and dust to a density high enough to create a
star. 









The fact that Black people in the English colonies of
North America were never treated as the equals of
White people has important ramifications. If from the
Line outset Black people were discriminated against, then
 









11. The passage suggests that the existence of a Roman
conception of slavery in Spanish and Portuguese
colonies had the effect of
(A) extending rather than causing racial
 
5






10






15






20
 
legal slavery in the 1660‘s should be viewed as a
reflection and an extension of racial prejudice rather
than, as many historians including Oscar and Mary
Handlin have argued, the cause of prejudice. In
addition, the existence of discrimination before the
advent of legal slavery offers a further explanation for
the harsher treatment of Black slaves in North than in
South America. Freyre and Tannenbaum have rightly
argued that the lack of certain traditions in North
America—such as a Roman conception of slavery and
a Roman Catholic emphasis on equality—explains why
the treatment of Black slaves was more severe there
than in the Spanish and Portuguese colonies of South
America. But this cannot be the whole explanation
since it is merely negative, based only on a lack of
something. A more compelling explanation is that the
early and sometimes extreme racial discrimination in
the English colonies helped determine the particular
nature of the slavery that followed.
(192 words)


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
10. According to the passage, the Handlins have NOT
argued which of the following about the relationship
between racial prejudice and the institution of legal
slavery in the English colonies of North America?


A Racial prejudice and the institution of slavery
arose simultaneously.
B The source of racial prejudice was the
institution of slavery.
C Although existing in a lesser form before the
1660‘s, racial prejudice increased sharply after
slavery was legalized.
 






























































57
 
prejudice in these colonies
(B) hastening the legalization of slavery in
these colonies
(C) mitigating some of the conditions of slavery
for Black people in these colonies
(D) delaying the introduction of slavery into the
English colonies
(E) bringing about an improvement in the
treatment of Black slaves in the English
colonies


12. The author considers the explanation put forward
by Freyre and Tannenbaum for the treatment
accorded Black slaves in the English colonies of
North America to be
(A) ambitious but misguided
(B) valid but limited
(C) popular but suspect
(D) anachronistic and controversial
(E) premature and illogical 










[This page is intentionally left blank. ]

































































58 







Exercise 11
 



Many critics of Eamily Bronte‘s novel Wuthering
Heights see its second part as a counterpoint that
comments on, if it does not reverse, the first part, where
 



2. Which of the following inferences about Henry
James‘s awareness of novelistic construction is
best supported by the passage?
 
Line
5






10






15






20
 
a ―romantic‖ reading receives more confirmation. Seeing
the two parts as a whole is encouraged by the novel‘s
sophisticated structure, revealed in its complex use of
narrators and time shifts. Granted that the presence of
these elements need not argue an authorial awareness of
novelistic construction comparable to that of Henry
James, their presence does encourage attempts to unify
the novel‘s heterogeneous parts. However, any
interpretation that seeks to unify all of the novel‘s
diverse elements is bound to be somewhat
unconvincing. This is not because such an
interpretation necessarily stiffens into a thesis (although
rigidity in any interpretation of this or of any novel is
always a danger), but because Wuthering Heights has
recalcitrant elements of undeniable power that,
ultimately, resist inclusion in an all-encompassing
interpretation. In this respect, Wuthering Heights shares
a feature of Hamlet.
(164 words)

1. According to the passage, which of the following is
a true statement about the first and second parts of
Wuthering Heights?
(A) The second part has received more attention
from critics.
(B) The second part has little relation to the first part.
(C) The second part annuls the force of the first part.
(D) The second part provides less substantiation
for a ―romantic‖ reading.
(E)The second part is better because it is more realistic.
 




























































59
 
(A) James, more than any other novelist, was
aware of the difficulties of novelistic
construction.
(B) James was very aware of the details of novel-
istic construction.
(C) James‘s awareness of novelistic construction
derived from his reading of Bronte.
(D) James‘s awareness of novelistic construction
has led most commentators to see unity in
his individual novels.
(E) James‘s awareness of novelistic construction
precluded him from violating the unity of
his novels.

3. The author of the passage would be most likely to
agree that an interpretation of a novel should
(A) not try to unite heterogeneous elements in the
novel
(B) not be inflexible in its treatment of the elements
in the novel
(C) not argue that the complex use of narrators or
of time shifts indicates a sophisticated structure
(D) concentrate on those recalcitrant elements of
the novel that are outside the novel‘s main
structure
(E) primarily consider those elements of novelistic
construction of which the author of the novel
was aware

For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. The author of the passage suggests which of the
following about Hamlet?
A Hamlet has usually attracted critical interpretations
that tend to stiffen into theses.
B Hamlet has elements that are not amenable
to an all-encompassing critical interpretation.
C Hamlet is less open to an all-encompassing
critical interpretation than is Wuthering
Heights. 










The deep sea typically has a sparse fauna dominated
by tiny worms and crustaceans, with an even sparser
distribution of larger animals. However, near
Line hydrothermal vents, areas of the ocean where warm water
 










Nonetheless, advection is a more likely alternative
food source. Research has demonstrated that advective
50 flow, which originates near the surface of the ocean
where suspended particulate matter accumulates,
 
5






10






15






20






25






30






35






40






45
 
emerges from subterranean sources, live remarkable
densities of huge clams, blind crabs, and fish.
Most deep-sea faunas rely for food on particulate
matter, ultimately derived from photosynthesis, falling
from above. The food supplies necessary to sustain the
large vent communities, however, must be many times
the ordinary fallout. The first reports describing vent
faunas proposed two possible sources of nutrition:
bacterial chemosynthesis, production of food by bacteria
using energy derived from chemical changes, and
advection, the drifting of food materials from surrounding
regions. Later, evidence in support of the idea of intense
local chemosynthesis was accumulated: hydrogen sulfide
was found in vent water; many vent-site bacteria were
found to be capable of chemosynthesis; and extremely
large concentrations of bacteria were found in samples of
vent water thought to be pure. This final observation
seemed decisive. If such astonishing concentrations of
bacteria were typical of vent outflow, then food within the
vent would dwarf any contribution from advection.
Hence, the widely quoted conclusion was reached that
bacterial chemosynthesis provides the foundation for
hydrothermal-vent food chains—an exciting prospect
because no other communities on Earth are independent
of photosynthesis.
There are, however, certain difficulties with this
interpretation. For example, some of the large sedentary
organisms associated with vents are also found at
ordinary deep-sea temperatures many meters from the
nearest hydrothermal sources. This suggests that bacterial
chemosynthesis is not a sufficient source of nutrition for
these creatures. Another difficulty is that similarly dense
populations of large deep-sea animals have been found in
the proximity of ―smokers‖ –vents where water emerges
at temperatures up to 350°C. No bacteria can survive such
heat, and no bacteria were found there. Unless smokers
are consistently located near more hospitable warm-water
vents, chemosynthesis can account for only a fraction of
the vent faunas. It is conceivable, however, that these
large, sedentary organisms do in fact feed on bacteria that
grow in warm-water vents, rise in the vent water, and then
 
transports some of that matter and water to the vents.
Estimates suggest that for every cubic meter of vent
discharge, 350 milligrams of particulate organic
55 material would be advected into the vent area. Thus, for
an average-sized vent, advection could provide more
than 30 kilograms of potential food per day. In addition,
it is likely that small live animals in the advected water
might be killed or stunned by thermal and/or chemical
60 shock, thereby contributing to the food supply of vents.
(479 words)
 
rain in peripheral areas to nourish animals living some
distance from the warm-water vents.

60 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


5. The passage provides information for answering
which of the following questions EXCEPT?
A What causes warm-water vents to form?
B What role does hydrogen sulfide play in
chemosynthesis?
C Do bacteria live in the vent water of smokers?


6. The information in the passage suggests that the
majority of deep-sea faunas that live in nonvent
habitats have which of the following characteristics?
(A) They do not normally feed on particles of food
in the water.
(B) They are smaller than many vent faunas.
(C) They are predators.
(D) They derive nutrition from a chemosynthetic
food source.
(E) They congregate around a single main food
source.
 













































































61
 









7. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
implies that vents are colonized by some of the same
animal found in other areas of the ocean floor, which
might be a weakness for the bacterial chemosynthesis
model.

8. The author refers to ―smokers‖ in the third paragraph
most probably in order to
(A) show how thermal shock can provide food for
some vent faunas by stunning small animals
(B) prove that the habitat of most deep-sea animals is
limited to warm-water vents
(C) explain how bacteria carry out chemosynthesis
(D) demonstrate how advection compensates for the
lack of food sources on the seafloor
(E) present evidence that bacterial chemosynthesis
may be an inadequate source of food for
some vent faunas 










Ragtime is a musical form that synthesizes folk
melodies and musical techniques into a brief quadrille-
like structure, designed to be played—exactly as written
Line —on the piano. A strong analogy exists between
 










9. Which of the following is most nearly analogous in
source and artistic character to a ragtime composition
as described in the passage?
 
5






10
 
European composers like Ralph Vaughan Williams,
Edward Grieg, and Anton Dvorak who combined folk
tunes and their own original materials in larger
compositions and the pioneer ragtime composers in the
United States. Composers like Scott Joplin and James
Scott were in a sense collectors or musicologists,
collecting dance and folk music in Black communities
and consciously shaping it into brief suites or
anthologies called piano rags.
(100 words)
 




























































62
 
(A) Symphonic music derived from complex jazz
motifs
(B) An experimental novel based on well-known
cartoon characters
(C) A dramatic production in which actors invent
scenes and improvise lines
(D) A ballet whose disciplined choreography is
based on folk-dance steps
(E) A painting whose abstract shapes evoke
familiar objects in a natural landscape 









Geologists have long known that the Earth‘s mantle
is heterogeneous, but its spatial arrangement remains
unresolved—is the mantle essentially layered or irregu-
larly heterogeneous? The best evidence for the layered-
mantle thesis is the well-established fact that volcanic
rocks found on oceanic islands, islands believed to
result from mantle plumes arising from the lower
mantle, are composed of material fundamentally
different from that of the midocean ridge system,
whose source, most geologists contend, is the upper
mantle.
Some geologists, however, on the basis of obser-
vations concerning mantle xenoliths, argue that the
mantle is not layered, but that heterogeneity is created
by fluids rich in ―incompatible elements‖ (elements
tending toward liquid rather than solid state)
percolating upward and transforming portions of the
upper mantle irregularly, according to the vagaries of
the fluids‘ pathways. We believe, perhaps
unimaginatively, that this debate can be resolved
through further study, and that the underexplored
midocean ridge system is the key.
(157 words)
 













































































63
 









10. According to the passage, it is believed that oceanic
islands are formed from
(A) the same material as mantle xenoliths
(B) the same material as the midocean ridge system
(C) volcanic rocks from the upper mantle
(D) incompatible elements percolating up from the
lower mantle
(E) mantle plumes arising from the lower mantle


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
11. It can be inferred from the passage that the sup-
porters of the ―layered-mantle‖ theory believe which
of the following?
A The volcanic rocks on oceanic islands are
composed of material derived from the
lower part of the mantle.
B The materials of which volcanic rocks on
oceanic islands and midocean ridges are
composed are typical of the layers from
which they are thought to originate.
C The differences in composition between
volcanic rocks on oceanic islands and the
midocean ridges are a result of different
concentrations of incompatible elements.


12. In the context of the passage, ―unimaginatively‖ is
closest in meaning to
(A) pedestrian
(B) controversial
(C) unrealistic
(D) novel
(E) paradoxical 









Scientists have sought evidence of long-term solar
periodicities by examining indirect climatological data,
such as fossil records of the thickness of ancient tree rings.
These studies, however, failed to link unequivocally
terrestrial climate and the solar-activity cycle, or even to
confirm the cycle's past existence.
(45 words)
 













































































64
 









13. It can be inferred from the passage that studies
attempting to use tree-ring thickness to locate possible
links between solar periodicity and terrestrial climate
are based on which of the following assumptions?


(A) The solar-activity cycle existed in its present form
during the time period in which the tree rings grew.
(B) The biological mechanisms causing tree growth
are unaffected by short-term weather pat terns.
(C) Average tree-ring thickness varies from species
to species.
(D) Tree-ring thicknesses reflect changes in terrestrial
climate.
(E) Both terrestrial climate and the solar-activity
cycle randomly affect tree-ring thickness. 







Exercise 12
 



Traditional research has confronted only Mexican
and United States interpretations of Mexican-American
culture. Now we must also examine the culture as we
Line Mexican Americans have experienced it, passing from
 



2. The author most probably uses the phrase
―charter minority‖ (lines 6-7) to reinforce the
idea that Mexican Americans
(A) are a native rather than an immigrant group
 
5






10






15






20
 
a sovereign people to compatriots with newly arriving
settlers to, finally, a conquered people—a charter
minority on our own land.
When the Spanish first came to Mexico, they inter-
married with and absorbed the culture of the indigenous
Indians. This policy of colonization through acculturation
was continued when Mexico acquired Texas in the early
1800‘s and brought the indigenous Indians into Mexican
life and government. In the 1820‘s, United States citizens
migrated to Texas, attracted by land suitable for cotton.
As their numbers became more substantial, their policy of
acquiring land by subduing native populations began to
dominate. The two ideologies clashed repeatedly,
culminating in a military conflict that led to victory for
the United States. Thus, suddenly deprived of our parent
culture, we had to evolve uniquely Mexican-American
modes of thought and action in order to survive.
(168 words)


1. The author‘s purpose in writing this passage is
primarily to
(A) suggest the motives behind Mexican and United
States intervention in Texas
(B) document certain early objectives of Mexican-
American society
(C) provide a historical perspective for a new analysis
of Mexican-American culture
(D) appeal to both Mexican and United States
scholars to give greater consideration to
economic interpretations of history
(E) bring to light previously overlooked research on
Mexican Americans
 


























































65
 
in the United States
(B) played an active political role when Texas first
became part of the United States
(C) recognized very early in the nineteenth century
the need for official confirmation of their
rights of citizenship
(D) have been misunderstood by scholars trying
to interpret their culture
(E) identify more closely with their Indian heritage
than with their Spanish heritage


3. Which of the following statements most clearly
contradicts the information in this passage?
(A) In the early 1800‘s, the Spanish committed more
resources to settling California than
to developing Texas.
(B) While Texas was under Mexican control, the
population of Texas quadrupled, in spite of the
fact that Mexico discouraged immigration
from the United States.
(C) By the time Mexico acquired Texas, many
Indians had already married people of
Spanish heritage.
(D) Many Mexicans living in Texas returned to
Mexico after Texas was annexed by the
United States.
(E) Most Indians living in Texas resisted Spanish
acculturation and were either killed or
enslaved. 









The determination of the sources of copper ore used in
 









composition as the lead in the copper ore. Lead isotope
 
the manufacture of copper and bronze artifacts of Bronze
Age civilizations would add greatly to our knowledge of
Line cultural contacts and trade in that era. Researchers have
5
analyzed artifacts and ores for their concentrations of elements,
but for a variety of reasons, these studies have generally failed
to provide evidence of the sources of the copper used in the
objects. Elemental composition can vary within the same
copper-ore lode, usually because of varying admixtures of
10
other elements, especially iron, lead, zinc, and arsenic. And
high concentrations of cobalt or zinc, noticed in some artifacts,
appear in a variety of copper-ore sources. Moreover, the
processing of ores introduced poorly controlled changes
in the concentrations of minor and trace elements in the
15
resulting metal. Some elements evaporate during smelting
and roasting; different temperatures and processes produce
different degrees of loss. Finally, flux, which is sometimes
added during smelting to remove waste material from the
ore, could add quantities of elements to the final product.
20
An elemental property that is unchanged through these
chemical processes is the isotopic composition of each
metallic element in the ore. Isotopic composition, the
percentages of the different isotopes of an element in a given
sample of the element, is therefore particularly suitable as an
25
indicator of the sources of the ore. Of course, for this purpose
it is necessary to find an element whose isotopic composition
is more or less constant throughout a given ore body, but
varies from one copper ore body to another or, at least, from
one geographic region to another.
30
The ideal choice, when isotopic composition is used to
investigate the source of copper ore, would seem to be copper
itself. It has been shown that small but measurable variations
occur naturally in the isotopic composition of copper.
However, the variations are large enough only in rare
35
ores; between samples of the common ore minerals of copper,
isotopic variations greater than the measurement error have
not been found. An alternative choice is lead, which occurs
in most copper and bronze artifacts of the Bronze Age in
amounts consistent with the lead being derived from the
40
copper ores and possibly from the fluxes. The isotopic
composition of lead often varies from one source of
common copper ore to another, with variations exceeding
the measurement error; and preliminary studies indicate
virtually uniform isotopic composition of the lead from a
45
single copper-ore source. While some of the lead found in
an artifact may have been introduced from flux or when
other metals were added to the copper ore, lead so added in
Bronze Age processing would usually have the same isotopic
 



































































66
 
50
 
studies may thus prove useful for interpreting the
archaeological record of the Bronze Age.
(473 words) 









4. The author first mentions the addition of flux during
smelting in the last sentence in the last paragraph in
order to
(A) give a reason for the failure of elemental
composition studies to determine ore sources
(B) illustrate differences between various Bronze
Age civilizations
(C) show the need for using high smelting
temperatures
(D) illustrate the uniformity of lead isotope
composition
(E) explain the success of copper isotope
composition analysis

For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
5. According to the passage, possible sources of the
lead found in a copper or bronze artifact include
which of the following?
A The copper ore used to manufacture the artifact
B Flux added during processing of the copper ore
C Other metal added during processing of the
copper ore
 













































































67
 









6. Select the sentence in the passage that the author
rejects copper as the ―ideal choice‖.

7. It can be inferred from the passage that the use
of flux in processing copper ore can alter the
lead isotope composition of the resulting metal
EXCEPT when
(A) there is a smaller concentration of lead in
the flux than in the copper ore
(B) the concentration of lead in the flux is
equivalent to that of the lead in the ore
(C) some of the lead in the flux evaporates
during processing
(D) any lead in the flux has the same isotopic
composition as the lead in the ore
(E) other metals are added during processing 









Echolocating bats emit sounds in patterns—
characteristic of each species—that contain both
frequency-modulated (FM) and constant-frequency (CF)
Line signals. The broadband FM signals and the narrowband
 









8. According to the passage, the information provided
to the bat by CF echoes differs from that provided
by FM echoes in which of the following ways?
(A) Only CF echoes alert the bat to moving targets.
 
5






10






15
 
CF signals travel out to a target, reflect from it, and
return to the hunting bat. In this process of transmission
and reflection, the sounds are changed, and the changes
in the echoes enable the bat to perceive features of the
target.
The FM signals report information about target
characteristics that modify the timing and the fine
frequency structure, or spectrum, of echoes—for
example, the target‘s size, shape, texture, surface
structure, and direction in space. Because of their narrow
bandwidth, CF signals portray only the target‘s presence
and, in the case of some bat species, its motion relative to
the bat‘s. Responding to changes in the CF echo‘s
frequency, bats of some species correct in flight for the
direction and velocity of their moving prey.
(150 words)
 






























































68
 
(B) Only CF echoes identify the range of widely
spaced targets.
(C) Only CF echoes report the target‘s presence to
the bat.
(D) In some species, CF echoes enable the bat to
judge whether it is closing in on its target.
(E) In some species, CF echoes enable the bat to
discriminate the size of its target and the
direction in which the target is moving.


9. Which of the following best describes the organization
of the passage?
(A) A fact is stated, a process is outlined, and
specific details of the process are described.
(B) A fact is stated, and examples suggesting that
a distinction needs correction are considered.
(C) A fact is stated, a theory is presented to explain
that fact, and additional facts are introduced
to validate the theory.
(D) A fact is stated, and two theories are compared
in light of their explanations of this fact.
(E) A fact is stated, a process is described, and
examples of still another process are
illustrated in detail. 










By far the most outstanding of American talented
women sculptors during the twentieth century is Louise
Nevelson, who in the eyes of many critics is the most
original female artist alive today. One famous and
influential critic, Hilton Kramer, said of her work, ―For
myself, I think Ms. Nevelson succeeds where the
painters often fail.‖
(55 words)
 













































































69
 










10. The author quotes Hilton Kramer most probably in
order to illustrate which of the following?
(A) The realism of Nevelson‘s work
(B) The unique qualities of Nevelson‘s style
(C) The extent of critical approval of Nevelson‘s
work
(D) A distinction between sculpture and painting
(E) A reason for the prominence of women
sculptors since the 1950‘s 









Until about five years ago, the very idea that peptide
hormones might be made anywhere in the brain besides
the hypothalamus was astounding. But laboratory after
Line laboratory found that antiserums to peptide hormones,
 









11. Which of the following titles best summarizes the
passage?
(A) Is Molecular Biology the Key to Understanding
Intercellular Communication in the Brain?
 
5






10






15






20
 
when injected into the brain, bind in places other than
the hypothalamus, indicating that either the hormones
or substances that cross-react with the antiserums are
present. The immunological method of detecting
peptide hormones by means of antiserums, however, is
imprecise. Cross-reactions are possible and this method
cannot determine whether the substances detected by
the antiserums really are the hormones, or merely close
relatives. Furthermore, this method cannot be used to
determine the location in the body where the detected
substances are actually produced. New techniques of
molecular biology, however, provide a way to answer
these questions. It is possible to make specific
complementary DNA‘s (cDNA‘s) that can serve as
molecular probes to seek out the messenger RNA‘s
(mRNA‘s) of the peptide hormones. The brain cells
containing these mRNA‘s can then be isolated and their
mRNA‘s decoded to determine just what their protein
products are and how closely the products resemble the
true peptide hormones.
(187 words)
 































































70
 
(B) Molecular Biology: Can Researchers Exploit
Its Techniques to Synthesize Peptide Hormones?
(C) The Advantages and Disadvantages of the
Immunological Approach to Detecting
Peptide Hormones
(D) Peptide Hormones: How Scientists Are
Attempting to Solve Problems of Their
Detection
(E) Peptide Hormones: The Role Played by
Messenger RNA‘s in Their Detection

12. The passage suggests that a substance detected in the
brain by use of antiserums to peptide hormones may
(A) have been stored in the brain for a long period
of time
(B) play no role in the functioning of the brain
(C) have been produced in some part of the body
other than the brain
(D) have escaped detection by molecular methods
(E) play an important role in the functioning of the
hypothalamus

13. Which of the following is mentioned in the passage
as a drawback of the immunological method of
detecting peptide hormones?
(A) It cannot be used to detect the presence of
growth regulators in the brain.
(B) It cannot distinguish between the peptide
hormones and substances that are very
similar to them.
(C) It uses antiserums that are unable to cross
the blood-brain barrier.
(D) It involves a purification process that requires
extensive training in endocrinology.
(E) It involves injecting foreign substances directly
into the bloodstream. 









Exercise 13
 



Biologists have long maintained that two groups of
pinnipeds, sea lions and walruses, are descended from
a terrestrial bearlike animal, whereas the remaining
Line group, seals, shares an ancestor with weasels. But the
 



1. The author implies that which of the following was part
of the long-standing view concerning pinnipeds?
A Pinnipeds are all descended from a terrestrial
bearlike animal.
 
5







10







15







20
 
recent discovery of detailed similarities in the skeletal
structure of the flippers in all three groups undermines
the attempt to explain away superficial resemblance as
due to convergent evolution—the independent develop-
ment of similarities between unrelated groups in
response to similar environmental pressures. Flippers
may indeed be a necessary response to aquatic life,
turtles, whales, and dugongs also have them. But the
common detailed design found among the pinnipeds
probably indicates a common ancestor. Moreover,
walruses and seals drive themselves through the water
with thrusts of their hind flippers, but sea lions use
their front flippers. If anatomical similarity in the
flippers resulted from similar environmental pressures,
as posited by the convergent-evolution theory, one
would expect walruses and seals, but not seals and sea
 
B Pinnipeds share a common ancestor with turtles,
whales, and dugongs
C Similarities among pinnipeds are due to their all
having had to adapt to aquatic life.


2. The author implies which of the following about the
fact that turtles, whales, and dugongs all have flippers?


A It can be explained by the hypothesis that turtles,
whales, and dugongs are very closely related.
B It can be explained by the idea of convergent
evolution.
C It suggests that turtles, whales, and dugongs
evolved in separate parts of the world
D It undermines the view that turtles, whales, and
dugongs are all descended from terrestrial ancestors.
E It is the primary difference between turtles, whales,
 
lions, to have similar flippers.
 
(162 words)
 






























71
 
and dugongs, on the one hand, and pinnipeds, on
the other.


3. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
shows that the implication of the common view is
contradicted by a new finding. 









Question 4 is based on the following reading passage.
 

According to astronomer S.A. Phinney, kicking a rock
hard enough to free it from Earth's gravity would require
a meteorite capable of making a crater more than 60 miles
across. Moreover, even if Earth rocks were freed by
meteorite impact, Mars's orbit is much larger than Earth's,
so Phinney estimates that the probability of these rocks
hitting Mars is about one-tenth as great as that of Mars's
rocks hitting Earth. To demonstrate this estimate, Phinney
used a computer to calculate where 1,000 hypothetical
particles would go if ejected from Earth in random
directions. He found that 17 of the 1,000 particles would
hit Mars.
 



































































72
 
4. Which of the following, if true, would cast most
doubt on Phinney's estimate of the probability of
Earth rocks hitting Mars?
A Rather than going in random directions, about
25 percent of all particles ejected from Earth
go in the same direction into space.
B Approximately 100 meteorites large enough to
make a noticeable crater hit the Earth each year.
C No rocks of Earth origin have been detected
on Mars.
D The velocity of rocks escaping from Earth's gravity is
lower than the velocity of meteorites hitting the Earth.
E No craters more than 60 miles across have
been found on Mars. 












[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
































































73 









For each of Questions 5-8, select one answer choice
unless otherwise instructed.
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the following reading
passage.
 


Present-day philosophers usually envision their
discipline as an endeavor that has been, since antiquity,
distinct from and superior to any particular intellectual
Line discipline such as theology or science. The basis for this
 


35
 


nineteenth century. Without the idea of epistemology, the
survival of philosophy in an age of modern science is
hard to imagine. Metaphysics, philosophy‘s traditional
core—considered as the most general description of how
 
5
 
view, however, lies in a serious misinterpretation of the
 
40
 
the heavens and the earth are put together—had been
 
past, a projection of modern concerns onto past events.
The idea of an autonomous discipline called ―philosophy,‖
distinct from and sitting in judgment on such pursuits as
theology and science turns out, on close examination, to
 
rendered almost completely meaningless by the
spectacular progress of physics. Kant, however, by
focusing philosophy on the problem of knowledge,
managed to replace metaphysics with epistemology, and
 
10






15
 
be of quite recent origin. When, in the seventeenth
century, Descartes and Hobbes rejected medieval
philosophy, they did not think of themselves, as modern
philosophers do, as proposing a new and better
philosophy, but rather as furthering ―the warfare between
science and theology.‖ They were fighting, albeit
 
45
 
thus to transform the notion of philosophy as ―queen of
sciences‖ into the new notion of philosophy as a separate,
foundational discipline: philosophy became ―primary‖ no
longer in the sense of ―highest‖ but in the sense of
―underlying‖.
 
discreetly, to open the intellectual world to the new
science and to liberate intellectual life from ecclesiastical
philosophy and envisioned their work as contributing to
the growth, not of philosophy, but of research in
 
20






25






30
 
mathematics and physics. This link between philosophical
interests and scientific practice persisted until the
nineteenth century, when decline in ecclesiastical power
over scholarship and changes in the nature of science
provoked the final separation of philosophy from both.
The demarcation of philosophy from science was
facilitated by the development in the early nineteenth
century of a new notion, that philosophy‘s core interest
should be epistemology, the general explanation of what
it means to know something. Modern philosophers now
trace that notion back at least to Descartes and Spinoza,
but it was not explicitly articulated until the late
eighteenth century, by Kant, and did not become built into
the structure of academic institutions and the standard
self-descriptions of philosophy professors until the late
 































74 









5. Which of the following best expresses the author‘s
main point?
A Philosophy‘s overriding interest in basic human
questions is a legacy primarily of the work of Kant.
B Philosophy was deeply involved in the seventeenth-
century warfare between science and religion.
C The set of problems of primary importance to
philosophers has remained relatively constant since
antiquity.
D The status of philosophy as an independent
intellectual pursuit is a relatively recent development.
E The role of philosophy in guiding intellectual
speculation has gradually been usurped by science.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


6. The author of the passage implies which of the
following in discussing the development of philosophy
during the nineteenth century EXCEPT?
A Nineteenth-century philosophy took science as its
model for understanding the bases of knowledge.
B Nineteenth-century philosophers carried out a
program of investigation explicitly laid out by
Descartes and Spinoza.
C Kant had an overwhelming impact on the direction of
nineteenth-century philosophy.
 













































































75
 









7. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
characterizes Descartes‘ support for the new science of
the seventeenth century.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


8. With which of the following statements concerning the
writing of history would the author of the passage be
most likely to agree?


A History should not be distorted by attributing
present-day consciousness to historical figures.
B History should be concerned with describing those
aspects of the past that differ most from those of the
present.
C History should not emphasize the role played by
ideas over the role played by individuals. 









Question 9 is based on the following reading passage.
 

Although recent years have seen substantial reductions
in noxious pollutants from individual motor vehicles,
the number of such vehicles has been steadily
increasing. Consequently, more than 100 cities in the
United States still have levels of carbon monoxide,
particulate matter, and ozone (generated by
photochemical, reactions with hydrocarbons from vehicle
exhaust) that exceed legally established limits.
 



































































76
 
9.Which of the following most closely parallels the
situation described in the first sentence of the
passage?


A Although a town reduces its public services in
order to avoid a tax increase, the town's tax
rate exceeds that of other towns in the
surrounding area.
B Although a state passes strict laws to limit the
type of toxic material that can be disposed of
in public landfills, illegal dumping continues
to increase.
C Although a town's citizens reduce their individual
use of water, the town's water supplies
continue to dwindle because of a steady
increase in the total population of the town.
D Although a country attempts to increase the
sale of domestic goods by adding a tax to the
price of imported goods, the sale of imported
goods within the country continues to
increase.
E Although a country reduces the speed limit on
its national highways, the number of fatalities
caused by automobile accidents continues to
increase. 









Questions 10 to 12 are based on the following reading
 
passage


Hank Morgan, the hero of Mark Twain's A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court, is a nineteenth-century
master mechanic who mysteriously awakening in
Line sixth-century Britain, launches what he hopes will be a
 
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
11. It can be inferred from the passage that Mark Twain
would most probably have believed in which of the
following statements about societal change?
A Technological advancements are limited in their
 
5








10






15






20
 
peaceful revolution to transform Arthurian Britain into an
industrialized modern democracy. The novel, written as a
spoof of Thomas Malory's Morte d'Arthur, a popular
collection of fifteenth-century legends about
sixth-century Britain, has been made into three upbeat
movies and two musical comedies. None of these
translations to screen and stage, however, dramatize the
anarchy at the conclusion of A Connecticut Yankee, which
ends with the violent overthrow of Morgan's
three-year-old progressive order and his return to the
nineteenth century, where he apparently commits suicide
after being labeled a lunatic for his incoherent babblings
about drawbridges and battlements. The American public,
although enjoying Twain's humor, evidently rejected his
cynicism about technological advancement and change
through peaceful revolution as antithetical to the United
States doctrine of progress.


10.According to the passage, which of the following is a
true statement about the reception of A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court by the American public?
A The public had too strong a belief in the doctrine of
progress to accept the cynicism demonstrated at the
conclusion of Twain's novel.
B Twain's novel received little public recognition until
the work was adapted for motion pictures and plays.
C Although the public enjoyed Twain's humor, his use
of both sixth-century and nineteenth-century
characters confused many people.
D The public has continued to enjoy Twain's story, but
the last part of the novel seems too violent to
American minds.
E Because of the cynicism at the end of the book, the
public rejected Twain's work in favor of the work of
Thomas Malory.
 

























































77
 
ability to change society and will likely bring
liabilities along with any potential benefits.
B The belief in the unmitigated benefits of societal
change is antithetical to the American
doctrine of progress.
C Technological advances and peaceful revolutions,
although sometimes accompanied by
unintended violence and resistance to societal
change, eventually lead to a more progressive order.


12.The author uses the examples of "three upbeat
movies and two musical comedies"(lines 9-10)
primarily in order to demonstrate that
A well-written novels like A Connecticut Yankee in
King Arthur's Court, regardless of their tone or theme,
can be translated to the stage and screen.
B the American public has traditionally been
more interested in watching plays and movies
than in reading novels like A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court
C Twain's overall message in A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court is one that
had a profound impact on the American public.
D Twain's A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's
Court has been a more popular version of the
Arthurian legends than has Malory's Morte d'Arthur
E A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
has been accepted as an enjoyable and humorous tale
in versions that have omitted the anarchy at the
novel's conclusion 










Exercise 14



For each of Questions 1-3, select one answer choice
 
unless otherwise instructed.

Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading
 
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
 
passage.
 
1.
 
It can be inferred that the author of the passage
would describe Brown Girl, Brownstones as being
 
Paule Marshall's Brown Girl, Brownstones (1959) was
a landmark in the depiction of female characters in Black
American literature. Marshall avoided the oppressed and
Line tragic heroine in conflict with White society that had been
 
A highly influenced by novels written in the early
twentieth century
B important in the late 1950's but dated today
C an important influence on novels written in
 
5






10






15
 
typical of the protest novels of early twentieth century.
Like her immediate predecessors, Zora Neale Hurston
and Gwendolyn Brooks, she focused her novel on an
ordinary Black woman's search for identity within the
context of a Black community. But Marshall extended the
analysis of Black female characters begun by Hurston and
Brooks by depicting her heroine's development in terms
of the relationship between her Barbadian American
parents, and by exploring how male and female roles
were defined by their immigrant culture, which in turn
was influenced by the materialism of White America. By
placing characters within a wider cultural context,
Marshall attacked racial and sexual stereotypes and paved
the way for explorations of race, class, and gender in the
 
the1970's


2. According to the passage, Hurston, Brooks, and
Marshall are alike in that they
A did not examine the effects of White culture on
their characters' lives
B were heavily influenced by the protest novels of
the early twentieth century
C used Black communities as the settings for their
novels.
D wrote primarily about the difficulties their char-
acters encountered in White culture
E wrote exclusively about female characters and
the experiences of women
 
novels of the 1970's.

3. The author‘s description of the way in which
Marshall depicts her heroine's development is most
probably intended to
A continue the discussion of similarities in the
works of Brooks, Hurston, and Marshall
B describe the specific racial and sexual stereo-
types that Marshall attacked
C contrast the characters in Marshall's novels
with those in later works
D show how Marshall extends the portrayal of
character initiated by her predecessors
E compare themes in Marshall's early work with
themes in her later novels



78 









Question 4 is based on the following reading passage.
 


Calculations of the density of alloys based on
Bernal-type models of the alloy‘s metal component
agreed fairly well with the experimentally determined
 


4. The author's speculation about the appropriateness
of models using spheres of two sizes for binary
alloys would be strongly supported if models using
 
Line
5






10
 
values from measurements on alloys consisting of a
noble metal together with a metalloid, such as alloys of
palladium and silicon, or alloys consisting of iron,
phosphorus, and carbon, although small discrepancies
remained. One difference between real alloys and the
hard spheres used in Bernal models is that the
components of an alloy have different sizes, so that
models based on two sizes of spheres are more
appropriate for a binary alloy, for example. The smaller
metalloid atoms of the alloy might fit into holes in the
dense, random-packed structure of the larger metal
atoms.
 




























































79
 
spheres of two sizes yielded


A values for density identical to values yielded by
one-sphere models using the smaller spheres
only
B values for density agreeing nearly perfectly with
experimentally determined values
C values for density agreeing nearly perfectly with
values yielded by models using spheres of
three sizes
D significantly different values for density depending
on the size ratio between the two kinds of spheres
used
E the same values for density as the values for
appropriately chosen models that use only
medium-sized spheres 









Questions 5 and 6 are based on the following reading
passage.


One of the principal themes of Walzer's critique of liberal
capitalism is that it is insufficiently egalitarian. Walzer's
case against the economic inequality generated by
Line capitalism and in favor of "a radical redistribution of
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


5.The passage provides sufficient information to
answer which of the following questions EXCEPT?


A What weight in relation to other qualities
 
5






10






15






20
 
wealth" is presented in a widely cited essay entitled "In
Defense of Equality." The most striking feature of
Walzer's critique is that, far from rejecting the principle of
reward according to merit, Walzer insists on its validity.
People who excel should receive the superior
benefits appropriate to their excellence. But people
exhibit a great variety of qualities—"intelligence,
physical strength, agility and grace, artistic creativity,
mechanical skill, leadership, endurance, memory,
psychological insight, the capacity for hard
work—even moral strength, sensitivity, the ability to
express compassion."Each deserves its proper
recompense, and hence a proper distribution of material
goods should reflect human differences as measured on
all these different scales. Yet, under capitalism, the ability
to make money ("the green thumb of bourgeois society")
enables its possessor to acquire almost "every other sort
of social good," such as the respect and esteem of others.
 

























































80
 
should a quality like sensitivity have,
according to Walzer, in determining the
proper distribution of goods?
B Which quality does Walzer deem too highly
valued under liberal capitalism?
C Which are the social goods that are, according
to Walzer, outside the reach of the power of
money?


6. The author implies that Walzer's interpretation of
the principle of reward according to merit is
distinctive for its


A insistence on maximizing everyone's rewards
B emphasis on equality
C proven validity
D broad conception of what constitutes merit
E broad conception of what constitutes a reward 









Questions 7 to 9 are based on the following reading
 
passage.

National character is not formally considered by
 
7. The author's main point in the passage is that
national character
 
social scientists in discussing economic and social
development today. They believe that people differ and
Line that these differences should be taken into account
 
A


B
 
is too elusive to merit attention by anthropologists
and other social scientists.
is of greater interest to social scientists today
 
5
 
somehow, but they have as yet discovered no way to
 
than it has been in the past.
 
include such variables in their formal models of economic
and social development. The difficulty lies in the
nature of the data that supposedly define different
national characters. Anthropologists and others are on
 
C


D
 
is still too difficult to describe with the precision
required by many social scientists.
has become increasingly irrelevant because of
the complexity of modern lift.
 
10
 
much firmer ground when they attempt to describe the
cultural norms for a small homogeneous tribe or village
 
E
 
can be described more accurately by anthropologists
than by other social scientists.
 
than when they undertake the formidable task of discovering
 
the norms that exist in a complex modern
nation-state composed of many disparate groups. The
 
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
 
15
 
situation is further complicated by the nature of judgments
 
about character; since such judgments are overly
dependent on impressions and since, furthermore,
impressions are usually stated in qualitative terms, it is
impossible to make a reliable comparison between the
national characters of two countries.
 









































81
 
8. It can be inferred from the passage that the social
scientists mentioned in the first two sentences would
agree with which of the following statements?


A It is extremely difficult to create models that account
for both economic and social development
B Models of economic and social development would
be improved by the inclusion of adequate
descriptions of national character.
C it is important to supplement formal models of
economic and social development with qualitative
impressions of national character.


9. Which of the following best describes the organization
of the passage?
AA problem is presented and reasons for its existence
are supplied.
B A controversial view is presented and evidence
for its validity is supplied.
C A hypothesis is presented and possible means
of verifying it are suggested.
D A recent development is described and then
analyzed.
E A dispute is summarized and one side defended. 










Questions 10 and 11 are based on the following
reading passage.
 

It is now established that the Milky Way is far more
extended and of much greater mass than was hitherto
thought. However, all that is visible of the constituents of
the Milky Way's corona (outer edge), where much of the
galaxy's mass must be located, is a tiny fraction of the
corona's mass. Thus, most of the Milky Way's outlying
matter must be dark.
Why? Three facts are salient. First, dwarf galaxies
and globular clusters, into which most of the stars of the
Milky Way's corona are probably bound, consist mainly
of old stars. Second, old stars are not highly luminous.
Third, no one has detected in the corona the clouds of
gaseous matter such as hydrogen and carbon monoxide
that are characteristic of the bright parts of a galaxy.
 
































































82
 

10. The passage as a whole is primarily concerned with


(A) analyzing a current debate
(B) criticizing a well-established theory
(C) showing how new facts support a previously
dismissed hypothesis
(D) stating a conclusion and adducing evidence that
may justify it
(E) contrasting two types of phenomena and
showing how they are related


11. Select the sentence that the author implicitly indicates
what astronomers believed about the Milky way until
fairly recently. 









Question 12 is based on the following reading passage.
 


In electrides, the anions (negative ions) are
completely replaced by electrons, which are trapped in
naturally formed cavities within a framework of regularly
stacked cations (positive ions). Unlike other types of
anions, anionic electrons do not behave as if they were
simple charged spheres. The properties of an electride
depend largely on the distance between the cavities that
hold trapped electrons. When the trapped electrons are far
apart, they do not interact strongly, and so behave
somewhat like an array of isolated negative charges.
When they are closer together, they begin to display
properties associated with large ensembles of identical
particles. When they are still closer, the ensemble
properties dominate and the electrons "delocalize".
 



































































83
 


12. It can be inferred from the passage that an electride
behaves most like a normal ionic crystal when the
electride has which of the following features?


(A) The anionic cavities are widely separated.
(B) All of the trapped electrons are able to delocalize.
(C) The trapped electrons are liberated by
impinging photons.
(D) The ions are tightly packed together.
(E) Most of the cations have lost their electrical
charge. 










Exercise 15
 




Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading
passage.
 




1. Select the sentence that is used as evidence that
workers worker bees are capable of thwarting each
 
other's attempts to reproduce.
Typically the queen honeybee is mother to all the bees
 
in a hive; after mating with several male drones from
other colonies, she lays fertilized eggs that develop into
Line all-female worker bees and lays unfertilized eggs that
 
2. The inner workings in a honeybee hive that regulate
reproduction, as they are described in the passage,
are most similar to which of the following
 
5






10






15
 
become all-male drones. According to natural selection
theory, a worker would enhance her fitness --or ability to
propagate her genes-by hatching her own eggs in addition
to or in place of the queen's. But a typical worker's fitness
would be diminished if other workers' sons, who have
less genetic material in common with the worker,
supplanted the queen's sons (the worker's brothers).
Researchers, testing the hypothesis that workers usually
somehow block each other's attempts to reproduce, put
unfertilized eggs laid by workers and by the queen into a
hive. Other workers quickly devoured the workers' eggs
while leaving the queen's eggs alone.
 


















































84
 
types of human societies?
(A) A totalitarian society in which citizens'
"policing" of each other's actions helps to
maintain the status quo.
(B) A pacifist state in which the individuals are
strongly opposed to the use of violence or
aggression to settle disputes.
(C) A democratic society in which the voice of the
majority rules.
(D) A parliamentary society in which a few members,
organized as a cabinet wield executive power.
(E) An anarchic state in which order and stable
social structures are lacking


3. The passage best supports which of the following
inferences about the fitness of honeybees?
(A) Reproduction diminishes any individual
honey-bee's fitness.
(B) An individual worker's fitness can be maintained
without the individual herself reproducing.
(C) A hierarchy of stronger and weaker
individuals among the worker bees
determines which individuals will reproduce
when a queen dies.
(D) While a queen reigns, the fitness of the
worker bees is increased and that of the
drones is diminished.
(E) Fitness encourages worker bees to hatch
honeybee eggs without regard for the
relatedness of the young to the "parent". 









Questions 4 and 5 are based on the following reading
passage.


The complications frequently accompanying diabetes,
such as impairment of vision and of kidney function, are
now thought to result from the lack of continuous control
of blood glucose concentrations. The healthy pancreas,
in response to increases in blood glucose concentration,
releases small quantities of insulin throughout
the day and thereby maintains the concentration within
physiological limits (normoglycemia). But the diabetic
generally receives only one large dose daily. The
diabetic‘s blood glucose concentration can thus fluctuate
greatly during the interval between doses, and it has
been suggested that the complications result from the
periods of high concentrations of blood glucose
(hyperglycemia). Many investigators thus believe that
restoration of normoglycemia might halt the progression
of such complications and perhaps even reverse them.
 













































































85
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


4. The author provides information that would answer
which of the following questions?


A What is hyperglycemia?
B What is one cause of hyperglycemia?
C What are some of the organs that can be
adversely affected by hyperglycemia?



5. Select the sentence that shows the cause of radical
changes in the diabetic‘s blood glucose concentration. 









Questions 6 to 8 are based on the following reading
passage.
 


The success of fluoride in combating dental decay is
well established and, without a doubt, socially beneficial.
However, fluoride's toxic properties have been known for
a century. In humans excessive intake (for adults, over 4
milligrams per day) over many years can lead to skeletal
fluorosis, a well-defined skeletal disorder, and in some
plant species, fluoride is more toxic than ozone, sulfur
dioxide, or pesticides.
Some important questions remain. For example, the
precise lower limit at which the fluoride content of bone
becomes toxic is still undetermined. And while fluoride
 

6. The passage suggests that it would be easier to
calculate fluoride intake from food if
A adequate diets were available for most people.
B individual eating habits were more uniform
C the fluoride content of food was more varied
D more people were aware of the fluoride content
of food
E methods for measuring the fluoride content of
food were more generally agreed on


7. One function of the second paragraph of the
passage is to
 
intake from water and air can be evaluated relatively
easily, it is much harder to estimate how much a given
population ingests from foodstuffs because of the wide
variations in individual eating habits and in fluoride
concentrations in foodstuffs.
 
A
B
C


D


E
 
raise doubts about fluoride's toxicity
introduce the issue of fluoride's toxicity
differentiate a toxic from a nontoxic amount of
fluoride
indicate that necessary knowledge of fluoride
remains incomplete
discuss the foodstuffs that are most likely to
 
contain significant concentrations of fluoride



For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


8.The passage suggests which of the following about
the effect of fluoride on humans?


A The effect of fluoride intake from water and air
is relatively difficult to monitor.
B An intake of 4 milligrams over a long period of
time usually leads to a skeletal disorder in humans.
C An intake of slightly more than 4 milligrams for
only a few months is not likely to be life-threatening.













86 












[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
































































87 









Questions 9 to 12 are based on the following reading
passage.
 






Line
5






10






15






20
 


In February 1848 the people of Paris rose in revolt
against the constitutional monarchy of Louis-Philippe.
Despite the existence of excellent narrative accounts, the
February Days, as this revolt is called, have been largely
ignored by social historians of the past two decades. For
each of the three other major insurrections in
nineteenth-century Paris—July 1830, June 1843, and May
1871----there exists at least a sketch of participants'
backgrounds and an analysis, more or less rigorous, of the
reasons for the occurrence of the uprisings. Only in the
case of the February Revolution do we lack a useful
description of participants that might characterize it in the
light of what social history has taught us about the
process of revolutionary mobilization.
Two reasons for this relative neglect seem obvious.
First, the insurrection of February has been overshadowed
by that of June. The February Revolution overthrew a
regime, to be sure, but met with so little resistance that it
failed to generate any real sense of historical drama. Its
successor, on the other hand, appeared to pit key
 


40






45






50






55
 


Experiences are retold, but participants typically
resume their daily routines without ever recording
their activities. Those who played salient roles may
become the objects of highly embellished verbal
accounts or in rare cases, of celebratory articles in
contemporary periodicals. And it is true that the
publicly acknowledged leaders of an uprising
frequently write memoirs. However, such
documents are likely to be highly unreliable,
unrepresentative, and unsystematically preserved,
especially when compared to the detailed judicial
dossiers prepared for everyone arrested following a
failed insurrection. As a consequence, it may prove
difficult or impossible to establish for a successful
revolution a comprehensive and trustworthy picture
of those who participated, or to answer even the
most basic questions one might pose concerning the
social origins of the insurgents.
 
socioeconomic groups in a life-or-death struggle and was
widely seen by contemporary observers as marking a
historical departure. Through their interpretations, which
 


25






30






35
 
exert a continuing influence on our understanding of the
revolutionary process, the impact of the events of June
has been magnified, while, as an unintended consequence,
the significance of the February insurrection has been
diminished. Second, like other "successful" insurrections,
the events of February failed to generate the most
desirable kinds of historical records. Although the June
insurrection of 1848 and the Paris Commune of 1871
would be considered watersheds of nineteenth-century
French history by any standard, they also present the
social historian with a signal advantage: these failed
insurrections created a mass of invaluable documentation
as a by-product of authorities‘ efforts to search out and
punish the rebels.
Quite different is the outcome of successful
insurrections like those of July 1830 and February 1848.
 




























88
 

For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


9. According to the passage, a useful description
of participants"(lines 11-12) exists for which of the
following insurrections of nineteenth-century
France?


A The July insurrection of 1830
B The February Revolution of 1848
C The May insurrection of 1871 









10. Which of the following, best describes the
organization of the second paragraph?
 









12. Which of the following is the most logical objection
to the claim made (lines 38-39) ?
 
A
 
The thesis of the passage is stated and
supporting evidence systematically presented.
 
A The February Revolution of 1848 is much less
significant than the July insurrection of 1830.
 
B


C


D


E
 
Two views regarding the thesis presented in the
first paragraph are compared and contrasted
Evidence refuting the thesis presented in the
first paragraph is systematically presented.
The thesis presented in the first paragraph is
systematically supported.
The thesis presented in the first paragraph is
further defined and a conclusion drawn.
 
B



C



D
 
The backgrounds and motivations of participants
in the July insurrection of 1830 have been
identified, however cursorily.
Even less is known about the July insurrection
of 1830 than about the February Revolution
of 1848.
Historical records made during the July
insurrection of 1830 are less reliable than those
 
made during the May insurrection of 1871.
 
11. Which of the following can be inferred about the
"detailed judicial dossiers" referred to in line 50?
 
E
 
The importance of the July insurrection of 1830
has been magnified at the expense of the
 
A



B



C



D



E
 
Information contained in the dossiers sheds
light on the social origins of a revolution's
participants.
The dossiers closely resemble the narratives
written by the revolution's leaders in their
personal memoirs.
The information that such dossiers contain is
untrustworthy and unrepresentative of a
revolution's participants.
Social historians prefer to avoid such dossiers
whenever possible because they are excessively
detailed.
The February Revolution of 1848 produced
more of these dossiers than did the June
insurrection.
 













































89
 
significance of the February Revolution of
1848. 







Exercise 16
 





Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading
passage.


One advantage of breeding African bees with other
bee types (Africanization) may be resistance to the para-
sitic mite Varroa jacobsoni, a major threat to modern
Line beekeeping. In parts of Europe, this mite is devastating
 





For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


1. The author cites all of the following as evidence that
Africanized bees' resistance to Varroa jacobsoni is
superior to that of European bees:
A Varroa jacobsoni is killing many bee colonies in
 
5






10






15
 
honeybees and killing many colonies despite preventive
measures by beekeepers. But in Brazil Varroa jacobsoni
has been present in Africanized bees since 1972 without
the loss of a single colony, even though beekeepers there
undertook no preventive measures. The mites lay eggs
within the brood cells of immature bees, and developing
mites feed on the hemolymph (blood) of bee pupae. But
fewer mites reproduce in Africanized bees than in
European bees. Some researchers point out that this
resistance may be related to the Africanized worker bee's
shorter development period, which prevents some mites
from reaching maturity. Recently the mite has become a
serious problem in colonies of European bees in North
America. Africanization of these bees may be the best
 
Europe.
B Beekeepers in Brazil have not used preventive
measures to protect their colonies.
C At least some European bee colonies have been
saved by preventive measures.


2. Select the sentence that indicates one possible reason
the Africanized bees in Brazil have successfully
resisted Varroa jacobsoni .


3. The author's argument regarding the resistance of
Africanized bees to Varroa jacobsoni would be
most weakened if which of the following were true?
 
safeguard against this parasite.
 
A


B



C



D


E
 
The bees in Brazil were resistant before being
Africanized.
The number of bee colonies in North American
increased dramatically whereas the number in
Brazil remained unchanged.
Mites found in European bees reproduce at a
faster rate than mites of identical species
found in the bees in Brazil.
Africanized bees retain many of the characteris-
tics of European bees.
Bee colonies in Europe continue to produce
 
greater quantities of honey than do those in
Brazil.









90 









Questions 4 and 5 are based on the following reading
 
passage.


Innovative as it is, Luis Valdez' acto owes much to the
theater traditions or other periods and regions. Like early
Spanish American religious dramas, secular folk dramas,
Line and the Mexican carpas of a somewhat later period, actos
 
4. Which of the following best describes the author's
evaluation of the views of the critics?
(A) Their views, if correct, do not preclude the
existence of an Italian influence on the acto.
(B) Their views are unlikely to be correct, given
the differences existing between Mexican and
 
5






10






15
 
are usually performed outdoors by traveling groups of
players or by local theater groups. The improvised comic
satire of the actos is often attributed to Valdez' study of
the Italian commedia dell' arte of the sixteenth century,
although some critics see it as a direct reflection of the
comic and improvisational qualities of the more
contemporary and local carpas of Mexican theater. The
Italian influence is likely, whatever Valdez‘ immediate
source: the Mexican carpas themselves are said to have
originated from the theater pieces of a sixteenth-century
Spanish writer inspired by encounters with Italian
commedia dell'arte troupes on tour in Spain.
 

























































91
 
Mexican American theater.
(C) Their views concerning the Mexican carpa are
essentially correct, but they lack familiarity
with the acto.
(D) Their views are probably more correct than the
views of those who have attributed the
comic and improvisational elements of the
acto to earlier sources.
(E) Their views betray a lack of familiarity with
the commedia dell'arte.


5. Which of the following, if true, most strengthens
the author's argument concerning the debt of the
acto to the theater traditions of other periods and
regions?
(A) Many popular forms of theater rely heavily
on improvisation.
(B) Plays resembling the acto in structure were
written in the 1970's by West African
playwrights who are interested in dramatizing
the richness of their own cultures.
(C) The use of masks has, at one time or another,
been characteristic of the theater traditions
of almost all cultures, even those most isolated
from outside influences.
(D) During a strike, it is common for union members
to present musical skits dramatizing the
values of solidarity and resistance.
(E) Before 1965 Luis Valdez had attended many
performances of traditional Mexican theater
groups touring the western United States. 









Questions 6 and 7 are based on the following reading
passage.
 


The appreciation of traditional oral American Indian
literature has been limited, hampered by poor translations
and by the difficulty, even in the rare culturally sensitive
Line and aesthetically satisfying translation, of completely
 


6. Which of the following is most likely one of the
reasons that the author mentions the work of
N. Scott Momaday?
(A) To illustrate how the author believes that
 
5






10






15
 
conveying the original's verse structure, tone, and syntax.
By writing in English and experimenting with European
literary forms, contemporary American Indian writers
have broadened their potential audience, while clearly
retaining many essential characteristics of their ancestral
oral traditions. For example, Pulitzer-prize-winning
author N. Scott Momaday's poetry often treats art and
mortality in a manner that recalls British romantic poetry,
while his poetic response to the power of natural forces
recalls Cherokee oral literature. Similarly, his novels, an
art form European in origin, display an eloquence that
echoes the oratorical grandeur of the great nineteenth-
 
some American Indian writers have broadened
their potential audience
(B) To emphasize the similarities between
Momaday's writings and their European
literary models
(C) To demonstrate the contemporary appeal of
traditional Native American oral literature
(D) To suggest that contemporary American Indian
writers have sacrificed traditional values for
popular literary success
(E) To imply the continuing popularity of transla-
tions of oral American Indian literature
 
century American Indian chiefs.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


7. Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage about written translations of oral Native
American poetry?
A They were often made by writers who were
intimately familiar with both English and Native
American languages.
B They were less widely read than are the works
of contemporary Native American poets
writing in English.
C They were less dependent on European literary
models than are the works of contemporary Native
American poets writing in English.














92 









Question 8 is based on the following reading passage.
 


Both Fuchs and Sanborn have suggested that the effect
of discrimination by consumers on the earnings of
self-employed women may be greater than the effect of
 


8. A study of the practices of financial institutions that
revealed no discrimination against self-employed women
would tend to contradict which of the following?
 
Line
 
either government or private employer discrimination on
 
5






10






15
 
the earnings of women employees. To test this hypothesis,
Brown selected a large sample of White male and female
workers from the 1970 Census and divided them into
three categories: private employees, government
employees, and self-employed. Brown's results suggest
that men and women are not treated the same by
employers and consumers. For men, self-employment is
the highest earnings category, with private employment
next, and government lowest. For women, this order is
reversed. One can infer from Brown's results that
consumers discriminate against self-employed women. In
addition, self-employed women may have more difficulty
than men in getting good employees and may encounter
discrimination from suppliers and from financial
institutions.
 



























































93
 
(A) Some tentative results of Fuchs's study
(B) Some explicit results of Brown's study
(C) A suggestion made by the author
(D) Fuchs's hypothesis
(E) Sanborn's hypothesis 









Questions 9 and 10 are based on the following reading
passage.
 


If people are regarded only as machines guided by
logic, as they were by some "scientistic" thinkers, rhetoric
is likely to be held in low regard; for the most obvious
truth about rhetoric is that it speaks to the whole person.
It presents its arguments first to the person as a rational
being. Logical argument is the plot, as it were, of any
speech or essay that is respectfully intended to persuade
people. Yet it is a characterizing feature of rhetoric that it
goes beyond this and appeals to the parts of our nature
that are involved in feeling, desiring, acting, and suffering.
It recalls relevant instances of the emotional reactions of
people to circumstances-real or fictional-that are similar
to our own circumstances.
 

































































94
 


9. The passage suggests that the disparagement of
rhetoric by some people can be traced to their
(A) reaction against science
(B) lack of training in logic
(C) desire to persuade people as completely as
possible
(D) misunderstanding of the use of the term "scientistic"
(E) view of human motivation


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


10. Which of the following states the author's
main point about logical argument?


A It is a sterile, abstract discipline, of little use in
real life.
B It is an essential element of persuasive
discourse, but only one such element.
C It is essential to persuasive discourse because it
deals with universal truths. 









Questions 11 to 13 are based on the following reading
passage.
 



When a molten metal or metallic alloy is cooled to a
solid, a crystalline structure is formed that depends on the
particular alloy composition. In contrast, molten
Line nonmetallic glass-forming materials, when cooled, do not
5  assume a crystalline structure, but instead retain a
structure somewhat like that of the liquid--an amorphous
structure. At room temperature, the natural long-term
tendency for both types of materials is to assume the
crystalline structure. The difference between the two is in
 



11. The author implies that the rate at which the molten
materials discussed in the passage are cooled is a
determinant of the
(A) chemical composition of the resulting solids
(B) strength of the chemical bonds that are formed
(C) kinetics of the materials' crystalline structure
(D) structure the materials assume
(E) stability of the materials' crystalline structure
 
10






15
 
the kinetics or rate of formation of the crystalline
structure, which is controlled by factors such as the nature
of the chemical bonding and the ease with which atoms
move relative to each other. Thus, in metals, the kinetics
favors rapid formation of a crystal line structure, whereas
in nonmetallic glasses the rate of formation is so slow that
almost any cooling rate is sufficient to result in an
amorphous structure.
 
















































95
 
12. It can be inferred from the passage that, theoretically,
molten nonmetallic glasses assume a crystalline
structure rather than an amorphous structure only if
they are cooled
(A) very evenly, regardless of the rate
(B) rapidly, followed by gentle heating
(C) extremely slowly
(D) to room temperature
(E) to extremely low temperatures


13. Select the sentence in which the author illustrates the
causes of the rate of formation of the crystalline
structure. 








Exercise 17
 



Volcanic rock that forms as fluid lava chills rapidly is
called pillow lava. This rapid chilling occurs when lava erupts
directly into water (or beneath ice) or when it flows across a
shoreline and into a body of water. While the term ―pillow lava‖
suggests a definite shape, in fact geologists disagree. Some
geologists argue that pillow lava is characterized by discrete,
ellipsoidal masses. Others describe pillow lava as a tangled
mass of cylindrical, interconnected flow lobes. Much of this
controversy probably results from unwarranted extrapolations
of the original configuration of pillow flows from two-
dimensional cross sections of eroded pillows in land
outcroppings. Virtually any cross section cut through a tangled
mass of interconnected flow lobes would give the appearance
of a pile of discrete ellipsoidal masses. Adequate three-
dimensional images of intact pillows are essential for defining
the true geometry of pillowed flows and thus ascertaining their
mode of origin. Indeed, the term ―pillow,‖ itself suggestive of
discrete masses, is probably a misnomer.
(165 words)
 


































































96
 



1. In the passage, the author is primarily interested in c
(A) analyzing the source of a scientific controversy
(B) criticizing some geologists‘ methodology
(C) pointing out the flaws in a geological study
(D) proposing a new theory to explain existing
scientific evidence
(E) describing a physical phenomenon


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply 
2. The author of the passage would most probably
agree that the geologists mentioned in the fourth
sentence have made which of the following errors
in reasoning? a
A Generalized unjustifiably from available evidence.
B Deliberately ignored existing counterevidence.
C Repeatedly failed to take new evidence into account.

3. The author implies that the ―controversy‖ might be
resolved if b
(A) geologists did not persist in using the term
―pillow‖
(B) geologists did not rely on potentially misleading
information
(C) geologists were more willing to confer directly
with one another
(D) two-dimensional cross sections of eroded
pillows were available
(E) existing pillows in land outcroppings were not
so badly eroded 









Draft passages in Proust‘s 1909 notebooks indicate that
the transition from essay to novel Remembrance of Things
Past began in Contre Saint-Beuve, when Proust introduced
several examples to show the powerful influence that
involuntary memory exerts over the creative imagination. In
effect, in trying to demonstrate that the imagination is more
profound and less submissive to the intellect than
Saint-Beuve assumed, Proust elicited vital memories of his
own and, finding subtle connections between them, began to
amass the material for Remembrance. By August, Proust was
writing to Vallette, informing him of his intention to develop
the material as a novel. Maurice Bardeche, in Marcel Proust,
romancier, has shown the importance in the drafts of
Remembrance of spontaneous and apparently random
associations of Proust‘s subconscious.
(124 words)
 













































































97
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. According to the passage, in drafts of Contre Saint-
Beuve Proust set out to show that Saint-Beuve made
which of the following mistakes as a critic? B 


A Saint-Beuve made no effort to study the development
of a novel through its drafts and revisions.
B Saint-Beuve assigned too great a role in the
creative process to a writer‘s conscious
intellect.
C Saint-Beuve concentrated too much on plots and not
enough on imagery and other elements of style.


5. In the context in which it appears, "spontaneous" in the
last sentence most nearly means. e


A contrived
B powerful
C abstruse
D involuntary
E premeditated 









The great variety of plants in Hawaii is a result of the
long-distance dispersal of seeds. There is some dispute
about the method of transport involved. Some biologists
argue that ocean and air cur-rents are responsible for the
transport of plant seeds to Hawaii. Yet the results of
flotation experiments and the low temperatures of air
currents cast doubt on these hypotheses. More probable is
bird transport, either externally, by accidental attachment of
the seeds to feathers, or internally, by the swallowing of
fruit and subsequent excretion of the seeds. While it is
likely that fewer varieties of plant seeds have reached Hawaii
externally than internally, more varieties are known to be
adapted to external than to internal transport.
 









6. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with b
(A) discussing different approaches biologists have
taken to testing theories about the distribution of
plants in Hawaii
(B) discussing different theories about the transport of
plant seeds to Hawaii
(C) discussing the extent to which air currents are
responsible for the dispersal of plant seeds to
Hawaii
(D) resolving a dispute about the adaptability of plant
seeds to bird transport
(E) resolving a dispute about the ability of birds to
carry plant seeds long distances
 
(119 words)
7. The author mentions the results of flotation
experiments on plant seeds most probably
in order to d
(A) support the claim that the distribution of plants in
Hawaii is the result of the long-distance dispersal of
seeds
(B) lend credibility to the thesis that air currents provide a
method of transport for plant seeds to Hawaii
(C) suggest that the long-distance dispersal of seeds is a
process that requires long periods of time
(D) challenge the claim that ocean currents are
responsible for the transport of plant seeds to Hawaii
(E) refute the claim that Hawaiian flora evolved
independently from flora in other parts of the world

























98 









Recent scholarship has strongly suggested that the aspects
of early New England culture that seem to have been most
distinctly Puritan, such as the strong religious orientation and
the communal impulse, were not typical of New England as a
whole, but were largely confined to the two colonies of
Massachusetts and Connecticut. Thus, what in contrast to the
Puritan colonies appears to Professor Davis to be peculiarly
Southern was not only more typically English than the
cultural patterns exhibited by Puritan Massachusetts and
Connecticut, but also almost certainly characteristic of most
other early modern British colonies from Barbados north to
Rhode Island and New Hampshire. Within the larger
framework of American colonial life, then, not the Southern
but the Puritan colonies appear to have been distinctive, and
even they seem to have been rapidly assimilating to the
dominant cultural patterns by the late Colonial period.


( 145 words)
 









8. Which of the following statements could most logically
follow the last sentence of the passage? b


(A) Thus, had more attention been paid to the
evidence, Davis would not have been tempted
to argue that the culture of the South
diverged greatly from Puritan culture in the
seventeenth century.
(B) Thus, convergence, not divergence, seems to
have characterized the cultural development
of the American colonies in the eighteenth
century.
(C) Thus, without the cultural diversity represented
by the America South, the culture of colonial
America would certainly have been
homogeneous in nature.
(D) Thus, the contribution of Southern colonials to
American culture was certainly overshadowed
 
by that of the Puritans.
(E) Thus, the culture of America during the Colonial
period was far more sensitive to outside
influences than historians are accustomed to
acknowledge.
































99 









A serious critic has to comprehend the particular content,
unique structure, and special meaning of a work of art. And
here she faces a dilemma. The critic must recognize the
artistic element of uniqueness that requires subjective reaction;
yet she must not be unduly prejudiced by such reactions. It is
necessary that a critic develop a sensibility informed by
familiarity with the history of art and aesthetic theory. On the
other hand, it is insufficient to treat the artwork solely
historically, in relation to a fixed set of ideas or values. The
critic‘s knowledge and training are, rather, a preparation of the
cognitive and emotional abilities needed for an adequate
personal response to an artwork‘s own particular qualities.
(118 words)
 













































































100
 









9. Select the sentence that gives a reason why it is
insufficient to treat a work of art solely historically.

10. The author‘s argument is developed primarily by
the use of b
(A) an attack on sentimentality
(B) an example of successful art criticism
(C) a critique of artists training
(D) a warning against extremes in art criticism
(E) an analogy between art criticism and art
production 







Exercise 18
 





Theorists are divided concerning the origin of the Moon.
Some hypothesize that the Moon was formed in the same
way as were the planets in the inner solar system (Mercury,
Venus, Mars, and Earth)—from planet-forming materials in
the presolar nebula. But, unlike the cores of the inner planets,
the Moon‘s core contains little or no iron, while the typical
planet-forming materials were quite rich in iron. Other
theorists propose that the Moon was ripped out of the Earth‘s
rocky mantle by the Earth‘s collision with another large
celestial body after much of the Earth‘s iron fell to its core. One
problem with the collision hypothesis is the question of how a
satellite formed in this way could have settled into the nearly
circular orbit that the Moon has today. Fortunately, the
collision hypothesis is testable. If it is true, the mantle rocks
of the Moon and the Earth should be the same geochemically.
(155 words)


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


1. According to the passage, Mars and the Earth are
similar in which of the following ways? B c


A Their satellites were formed by collisions with
other celestial bodies.
B Their cores contain iron.
C They were formed from the presolar nebula.
 



































































101
 





2. The author implies that a nearly circular orbit is
unlikely for a satellite that d
(A) circles one of the inner planets
(B) is deficient in iron
(C) is different from its planet geochemically
(D) was formed by a collision between two celestial
bodies
(E) was formed out of the planet-forming materials
in the presolar nebula


3. Which of the following, if true, would be most likely
to make it difficult to verify the collision hypothesis
in the manner suggested by the author? b
(A) The Moon‘s core and mantle rock are almost
inactive geologically.
(B) The mantle rock of the Earth has changed in
composition since the formation of the
Moon, while the mantle rock of the Moon has
remained chemically inert.
(C) Much of the Earth‘s iron fell to the Earth‘s core
long before the formation of the Moon, after
which the Earth‘s mantle rock remained
unchanged.
(D) Certain of the Earth‘s elements, such as platinum,
gold, and iridium, followed iron to the
Earth‘s core.
(E) The mantle rock of the Moon contains elements
such as platinum, gold, and iridium. 







A long-held view of the history of the English
colonies that became the United States has been that
England‘s policy toward these colonies before 1763 was
dictated by commercial interests and that a change to a
more imperial policy, dominated by expansionist militarist
objectives, generated the tensions that ultimately led to the
American Revolution. In a recent study, Stephen Saunders
Webb has presented a formidable challenge to this view.
According to Webb, England already had a military
imperial policy for more than a century before the
American Revolution. He sees Charles II, the English
monarch between 1660 and 1685, as the proper successor
 







expedition in more than a century, but it proved to be an
utter failure. Under Charles II, the English army was too
small to be a major instrument of government. Not until the
war France in 1697 did William III persuade Parliament to
create a professional standing army, and Parliaments price
for doing so was to keep the army under tight legislative
control. While it may be true that the crown attempted to
curtail the power of the colonial upper classes, it is hard to
imagine how the English army during the seventeenth
century could have provided significant military support for
such a policy.
(473 words)
 
of the Tudor monarchs of the sixteenth century and of
Oliver Cromwell, all of whom were bent on extending
centralized executive power over England‘s possessions
through the use of what Webb calls ―garrison
government.‖Garrison government allowed the colonists a
legislative assembly but real authority, in Webb‘s view,
belonged to the colonial governor, who was appointed by
the king and supported by the ―garrison,‖ that is, by the
local contingent of English troops under the colonial
governor‘s command.
According to Webb, the purpose of garrison
government was to provide military support for a royal
policy designed to limit the power of the upper classes in
the American colonies. Webb argues that the colonial
legislative assemblies represented the interests not of the
common people but of the colonial upper classes, a
coalition of merchants and nobility who favored self-rule
and sought to elevate legislative authority at the expense of
the executive. It was, according to Webb, the colonial
governors who favored the small farmer, opposed the
plantation system, and tried through taxation to break up
large holdings of land. Backed by the military presence of
the garrison, these governors tried to prevent the gentry and
merchants, allied in the colonial assemblies, from
transforming colonial America into a capitalistic oligarchy.
Webb‘s study illuminates the political alignments that
existed in the colonies in the century prior to the American
Revolution, but his view of the crown‘s use of the military
as an instrument of colonial policy is not entirely
convincing. England during the seventeenth century was
not noted for its military achievements. Cromwell did
mount England‘s most ambitious overseas military

102 









4. The passage can best be described as a c
(A) survey of the inadequacies of a conventional
viewpoint
(B) reconciliation of opposing points of view
(C) summary and evaluation of a recent study
(D) defense of a new thesis from anticipated
objections
(E) review of the subtle distinctions between
apparently similar views


5. The passage suggests that the long-standing view
referred to in the first paragraph argued that d
(A) the colonial governors were sympathetic to the
demands of the common people
(B) Charles II was a pivotal figure in the shift of
English monarchs toward a more imperial
policy in their governorship of the American
colonies.
(C) the American Revolution was generated largely
out of a conflict between the colonial upper
classes and an alliance of merchants and
small farmers
(D) the military did not play a major role as an
instrument of colonial policy until 1763
(E) the colonial legislative assemblies in the
colonies had little influence over the
colonial governors
 













































































103
 









6. According to the passage, Webb views Charles II as
the ―proper successor‖ (in the first paragraph) of the
Tudor monarchs and Cromwell because Charles II b
(A) used colonial tax revenues to fund overseas
military expeditions
(B) used the military to extend executive power
over the English colonies
(C) wished to transform the American colonies into
capitalistic oligarchies
(D) resisted the English Parliament‘s efforts to exert
control over the military
(E) allowed the American colonists to use legislative
assemblies as a forum for resolving
grievances against the crown


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply 
7. According to Webb‘s view of colonial history, which
of the following was (were) true of the merchants
and nobility mentioned in the second paragraph? A b 
A They were opposed to policies formulated by
Charles II that would have transformed the
colonies into capitalistic oligarchies.
B They were opposed to attempts by the English
crown to limit the power of the legislative
assemblies.
C They were united with small farmers in their
opposition to the stationing of English troops
in the colonies. 











At the Shadybrook dog kennel, all the adult animals were
given a new medication designed to reduce a dog‘s risk of
contracting a certain common infection. Several days after
the medication was administered, most of the puppies of
these dogs had elevated temperatures. Since raised body
temperature is a side effect of this medication, the kennel
owner hypothesized that the puppies‘ elevated temperatures
resulted from the medication‘s being passed to them
through their mothers‘ milk.
 











8.
 











Which of the following, if true, provides the most
support for the kennel owner‘s hypothesis? c

(A) Some puppies have been given the new medication
directly but have not suffered elevated
temperatures as a side effect.
(B) The new medication has been well received by dog
breeders as a safe and effective way of preventing
the spread of certain common canine infections.
(C) None of the four puppies in the kennel who had
 
been bottle-fed with formula had elevated
temperatures.
(D) an elevated temperature is a side effect of a
number of medications for dogs other than the new
medication administered at the kennel.
(E) Elevated temperatures such as those suffered by
most of the puppies in the kennel rarely have
serious long-term effects on a puppy‘s health.






































104 









The social sciences are less likely than other intellectual
enterprises to get credit for their accomplishments.
Arguably, this is so because the theories and conceptual
constructs of the social sciences are especially accessible:
human intelligence apprehends truths about human affairs
with particular facility.
This underappreciation of the social sciences contrasts
oddly with what many see as their overutilization. Game
theory is pressed into service in studies of shifting
international alliances. Evaluation research is called upon
to demonstrate successes or failures of social programs. Yet
this rush into practical applications is itself quite
understandable: public policy must continually be made,
and policymakers rightly feel that even tentative findings
and untested theories are better guides to decision-making
than no findings and no theories at all.
(123 words)
 













































































105
 









9. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
refers to the same meaning as the ―overutilization‖ of
the social sciences. 









Zooplankton, tiny animals adapted to an existence in the
ocean, have evolved clever mechanisms for obtaining their
food, miniscule phytoplankton (plant plankton). A very
specialized feeding adaptation in zooplankton is that of the
tadpolelike appendicularian who lives in a walnut-sized (or
smaller) balloon of mucus equipped with filters that capture
and concentrate phytoplankton. The balloon, a transparent
structure that varies in design according to the type of
appendicularian inhabiting it, also protects the animal and
helps to keep it afloat. Water containing phytoplankton is
pumped by the appendicularian‘s muscular tail into the
balloon‘s incurrent filters, passes through the feeding filter
where the appendicularian sucks the food into its mouth,
and then goes through an exit passage. Found in all the
oceans of the world, including the Arctic Ocean,
appendicularians tend to remain near the water‘s surface
where the density of phytoplankton is greatest.
(143 words)
 













































































106
 









10. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the
following is true of appendicularians? c


(A) They are exclusively carnivorous.
(B) They have more than one method of obtaining
food.
(C) They can tolerate frigid water.
(D) They can disguise themselves by secreting
mucus.
(E) They are more sensitive to light than are other
zooplankton. 










Exercise 19
 




The common cold, produced most often by rhinoviruses,
is intractable to antiviral defense. A defense against
rhinoviruses might nonetheless succeed by exploiting
hidden similarities among the rhinovirus strains. For
example, most rhinovirus strains bind to the same kind of
molecule (delta-receptors) on a cell‘s surface when they
attack human cells. Colonno, taking advantage of these
common receptors, devised a strategy for blocking the
attachment of rhinoviruses to their appropriate receptors.
Rather than fruitlessly searching for an antibody that would
bind to all rhinoviruses, Colonno realized that an antibody
binding to the common receptors of a human cell would
prevent rhinoviruses from initiating an infection. Because
human cells normally do not develop antibodies to
components of their own cells, Colonno injected human
cells into mice, which did produce an antibody to the
common receptor. In isolated human cells, this antibody
proved to be extraordinarily effective at thwarting the
rhinovirus. Moreover, when the antibody was given to
chimpanzees, it inhibited rhinoviral growth, and in humans
it lessened both the severity and duration of cold symptoms.
(173 words)
 




1. It can be inferred from the passage that a cell
lacking delta-receptors will be e
(A) unable to prevent the rhinoviral nucleic acid
from shedding its capsid
(B) defenseless against most strains of rhinovirus
(C) unable to release the viral progeny it develops
after infection
(D) protected from new infections by antibodies
to the rhinovirus
(E) resistant to infection by most strains of
rhinovirus


2. It can be inferred from the passage that the purpose
of Colonno‘s experiments was to determine whether d
(A) chimpanzees and humans can both be infected
by rhinoviruses
(B) chimpanzees can produce antibodies to human
cell-surface receptors
(C) a rhinovirus‘ nucleic acid might be locked in
its protein coat
(D) binding antibodies to common receptors
could produce a possible defense against
 
rhinoviruses
(E) rhinoviruses are vulnerable to human anti-
bodies


3. In the context in which it appears, "thwarting" most
nearly means b


A accelerating
B blocking
C warming
D abetting
E neutralizing








107 










4. Which of the following most logically completes the
argument?
Alivia‘s government has approved funds for an
electricity-generation project based on the construction of
a pipeline that will carry water from Lake Cylus, in the
mountains, to the much smaller Lake Tifele, in a nearby
valley. The amount of electricity generated will be
insufficient by itself to justify the project‘s cost, even if
the price of imported oil-Alivia‘s primary source of
electricity-increases sharply. Nonetheless, the pipeline
project is worth its cost, because ——b
 













































































108
 










(A) the price of oil, once subject to frequent sharp
increases, has fallen significantly and is now fairly
stable
(B) the project could restore Lake Tifele, which is
currently at risk of drying up and thus of being lost
as a source of recreation income for Alivia
(C) the government of Alivia is currently on excellent
terms with the governments of most of the
countries from which it purchases oil
(D) it would cost less to generate electricity by moving
water from Lake Cylus to lake Tifele than to do so
by moving water from Lake Cylus to another
valley lake
(E) Alivian officials do not expect that the amount of
electricity used in Alivia will increase substantially
within the next ten years 










Students of United States history, seeking to identify the
circumstances that encouraged the emergence of feminist
movements, have thoroughly investigated the mid-
nineteenth-century American economic and social conditions
that affected the status of women. These historians, however,
have analyzed less fully the development of specifically
feminist ideas and activities during the same period.
Furthermore, the ideological origins of feminism in the
United States have been obscured because, even when
historians did take into account those feminist ideas and
activities occurring within the United States, they failed to
recognize that feminism was then a truly international
movement actually centered in Europe. American feminist
activists who have been described as ―solitary‖ and
―individual theorists‖ were in reality connected to a
movement—utopian socialism— which was already
popularizing feminist ideas in Europe during the two decades
that culminated in the first women‘s rights conference held at
Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848.
(148 words)
 










5. It can be inferred that the author considers those
historians who describe early feminists in the United
States as ―solitary‖ to be a
(A) insufficiently familiar with the international
origins of nineteenth-century American femi-
nist thought
(B) overly concerned with the regional diversity
of feminist ideas in the period before 1848
(C) not focused narrowly enough in their geo-
graphical scope
(D) insufficiently aware of the ideological conse-
quences of the Seneca Falls conference
(E) insufficiently concerned with the social condi-
tions out of which feminism developed


6. According to the passage, which of the following
is true of the Seneca Falls conference on women‘s
rights? c
(A) It was primarily a product of nineteenth-
century Saint-Simonian feminist thought.
 
(B) It was the work of American activists who
were independent of feminists abroad.
(C) It was the culminating achievement of the
utopian socialist movement.
(D) It was a manifestation of an international
movement for social change and feminism.
(E) It was the final manifestation of the women‘s
rights movement in the United States in the
nineteenth century.





















109 









Researchers of the Pleistocene epoch have developed
all sorts of more or less fanciful model schemes of how
they would have arranged the Ice Age had they been in
charge of events. For example, an early classification of
Alpine glaciations suggested the existence there of four
glaciations, named the Gunz, Mindel, Riss, and Wurm. This
succession was based primarily on a series of deposits and
events not directly related to glacial and interglacial periods,
rather than on the more usual modern method of studying
biological remains found in interglacial beds themselves
interstratified within glacial deposits. Yet this succession
was forced willy-nilly onto the glaciated parts of Northern
Europe, with hopes of ultimately piecing them together to
provide a complete Pleistocene succession. Eradication of
 









7. According to the passage, one of the reasons for the
deficiencies of the ―early classification of Alpine
glaciation‖ is that it was c
(A) derived from evidence that was only tangentially
related to times of actual glaciation
(B) based primarily on fossil remains rather than on
actual living organisms
(C) an abstract, imaginative scheme of how the
period might have been structured
(D) based on unmethodical examinations of
randomly chosen glacial biological remains
(E) derived from evidence that had been haphazardly
gathered from glacial deposits and inaccurately
evaluated
 
the Alpine nomenclature is still proving a Herculean task.
8. Which of the following does the passage imply about
 
(132 words)
 











































110
 
the ―early classification of Alpine glaciation‖ ? d
(A) It should not have been applied as widely as
it was.
(B) It represents the best possible scientific practice,
given the tools available at the time.
(C) It was a valuable tool, in its time, for measuring
the length of the four periods of glaciation.
(D) It could be useful, but only as a general guide
to the events of the Pleistocene epoch.
(E) It does not shed any light on the methods used
at the time for investigating periods of glaciation. 









When speaking of Romare Bearden, one is tempted to
say, ―A great Black American artist.‖ The subject matter of
Bearden‘s collages is certainly Black. Portrayals of the folk
of Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, whom he
remembers from early childhood, of the jazz musicians and
tenement roofs of his Harlem days, of Pittsburgh
steelworkers, and his reconstruction of classical Greek
myths in the guise of the ancient Black kingdom of Benin,
attest to this. In natural harmony with this choice of subject
matter are the social sensibilities of the artist, who remains
active today with the Cinque Gallery in Manhattan, which
he helped found and which is devoted to showing the work
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
9. According to the passage, all of the following are
depicted in Bearden‘s collages a b c


A workers in Pittsburgh‘s steel mills
B the jazz musicians of the Harlem Bearden used
to know
C people Bearden knew as a child



10. Select the sentence that indicates the explanatory goal
 
of minority artists.
 
(114 words)
 


















































111
 
when the author mentions Bearden‘s social 
sensibilities and the subject matter of his collages. 













[This page is intentionally left blank. ]






























































112 










Exercise 20
 




Diamonds, an occasional component of rare igneous
rocks called lamproites and kimberlites, have never been
dated satisfactorily. However, some diamonds contain minute
inclusions of silicate minerals, commonly olivine, pyroxene,
and garnet. These minerals can be dated by radioactive decay
techniques because of the very small quantities of
radioactive trace elements they, in turn, contain. Usually, it is
possible to conclude that the inclusions are older than their
diamond hosts, but with little indication of the time interval
involved. Sometimes, however, the crystal form of the
silicate inclusions is observed to resemble more closely the
internal structure of diamond than that of other silicate
minerals. When present, the resemblance is regarded as
compelling evidence that the diamonds and inclusions are
 




1. The author implies that silicate inclusions were most
often formed
(A) with small diamonds inside of them
(B) with trace elements derived from their host
minerals
(C) by the radioactive decay of rare igneous rocks
(D) at an earlier period than were their host
minerals
(E) from the crystallization of rare igneous material


2. Select the sentence in the passage that indicates a way
to determine the age of silicate minerals included in
diamonds.
 
truly cogenetic.
 
(121 words)
 







































113 









For some time scientists have believed that cholesterol
plays a major role in heart disease because people with
familial hypercholesterolemia, a genetic defect, have six to
eight times the normal level of cholesterol in their blood and
they invariably develop heart disease. These people lack
cell-surface receptors for low-density lipoproteins (LDL‘s),
 









converted to LDL‘s. The LDL receptors thus have a dual
effect in controlling LDL levels. They are necessary to
prevent oversynthesis of LDL‘s from VLDL remnants and
they are necessary for the normal removal of LDL‘s from the
blood. With this knowledge, scientists are now well on the
way toward developing drugs that dramatically lower
 
which are the fundamental carriers
 
of blood cholesterol to cholesterol levels in people afflicted with certain forms of
 
the body cells that use cholesterol. Without an adequate
 
familial hypercholesterolemia.
 
number of cell-surface receptors to remove LDL‘s from the
blood, the cholesterol-carrying LDL‘s remain in the blood,
increasing blood cholesterol levels. Scientists also noticed
that people with familial hypercholesterolemia appear to
produce more LDL‘s than normal individuals. How, scientists
wondered, could a genetic mutation that causes a slow-down
in the removal of LDL‘s from the blood also result in an
increase in the synthesis of this cholesterol-carrying protein?
Since scientists could not experiment on human body
tissue, their knowledge of familial hyper- cholesterolemia
was severely limited. However, a breakthrough came in the
laboratories of Yoshio Watanabe of Kobe University in Japan
in 1980. Watanabe noticed that a male rabbit in his colony
had ten times the normal concentration of cholesterol in its
blood. By appropriate breeding, Watanabe obtained a strain
of rabbits that had very high cholesterol levels. These rabbits
spontaneously developed heart disease. To his surprise,
Watanabe further found that the rabbits, like humans with
familial hypercholesterolemia, lacked LDL receptors. Thus,
scientists could study these Watanabe rabbits to gain a better
understanding of familial hyper-
cholesterolemia in humans.
Prior to the breakthrough at Kobe University, it was
known that LDL‘s are secreted from the liver in the form of a
precursor, called very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL‘s),
which carry triglycerides as well as relatively small amounts
of cholesterol. The triglycerides are removed from the
VLDL‘s by fatty and other tissues. What remains is a remnant
particle that must be removed from the blood. What scientists
learned by studying the Watanabe rabbits is that the removal
of the VLDL remnant requires the LDL receptor. Normally,
the majority of the VLDL remnants go to the liver where they
bind to LDL receptors and are degraded. In the Watanabe
rabbit, due to a lack of LDL receptors on liver cells, the
VLDL remnants remain in the blood and are eventually

114 









3. In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) presenting a hypothesis and describing
compelling evidence in support of it
(B) raising a question and describing an important
discovery that led to an answer
(C) showing that a certain genetically caused
disease can be treated effectively with drugs
(D) explaining what causes the genetic mutation
that leads to heart disease
(E) discussing the importance of research on
animals for the study of human disease


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. The passage supplies information to answer which
 









5. The passage implies that if the Watanabe rabbits
had had as many LDL receptors on their livers as
do normal rabbits, the Watanabe rabbits would
have been
(A) less likely than normal rabbits to develop heart
disease
(B) less likely than normal rabbits to develop high
concentrations of cholesterol in their blood
(C) less useful than they actually were to scientists
in the study of familial hypercholesterolemia
in humans
(D) unable to secrete VLDL‘s from their livers
(E) immune to drugs that lower cholesterol levels in
people with certain forms of familial
hypercholesterolemia
 
of the following questions EXCEPT?
6. The passage implies that Watanabe rabbits differ
 
A Which body cells are the primary users of
cholesterol?
B How did scientists discover that LDL‘s are
secreted from the liver in the form of a precursor?
C Where in the body are VLDL remnants
degraded?
 










































115
 
from normal rabbits in which of the following ways?
(A) Watanabe rabbits have more LDL receptors
than do normal rabbits.
(B) The blood of Watanabe rabbits contains more
VLDL remnants than does the blood of
normal rabbits.
(C) Watanabe rabbits have fewer fatty tissues than
do normal rabbits.
(D) Watanabe rabbits secrete lower levels of
VLDL‘s than do normal rabbits.
(E) The blood of Watanabe rabbits contains fewer
LDL‘s than does the blood of normal
rabbits. 










Discussion of the assimilation of Puerto Ricans in the
United States has focused on two different factors: social
standing and the loss of national culture, depending on
whether the commentator is North American or Puerto Rican.
Many North American social scientists consider Puerto
Ricans as the most recent in a long line of ethnic entrants to
occupy the lowest rung on the social ladder. Such a ―socio-
demographic‖ approach tends to regard assimilation as a
benign process. In contrast, the ―colonialist‖ approach of
island-based writers tends to view assimilation as the forced
loss of national culture in an unequal contest with imposed
foreign values. There is, of course, a strong tradition of
cultural accommodation among other Puerto Rican thinkers,
like Eugenio Fernandez Mendez. But the Puerto Rican
intellectuals who have written most about the assimilation
process in the United States all advance cultural nationalist
views, advocating the preservation of minority cultural
distinctions and rejecting what they see as the subjugation of
 










7. It can be inferred from the passage that a writer such as
Eugenio Fernandez Mendez would most likely agree with
which of the following statements concerning members of
minority ethnic groups?
(A) It is necessary for the members of such groups
to adapt to the culture of the majority.
(B) The members of such groups generally encounter
a culture that is static and undifferentiated.
(C) Social mobility is the most important feature
of the experience of members of such groups.
(D) Social scientists should emphasize the cultural
and political aspects of the experience of
members of such groups.
(E) The assimilation of members of such groups
requires the forced abandonment of their
authentic national roots.


8. In the context in which it appears, "subjugation" in the
 
colonial nationalities.
 
(162 words)
 







































116
 
last sentence most nearly means
A accommodation
B subjection
C assimilation
D incorporation
E defeatism 










9. When cut, the synthetic material fiberglass, like asbestos,
releases microscopic fibers into the air. It is known that
people who inhale asbestos, fibers suffer impairment of
lung functions. A study of 300 factory workers who
regularly cut fiberglass showed that their lung capacity is,
on average, only 90 percent of that of a comparable group
of people who do not cut fiberglass.
 













































































117
 










The statements above, if true, most strongly support
which of the following hypotheses?


(A) People who work with fiberglass are likely also to
work with asbestos.
(B) Fiberglass fibers impair lung function in people who
inhale them.
(C) Fiberglass releases as many fibers into the air when
cut as does asbestos.
(D) Coarse fibers do not impair lung function in people
who inhale them.
(E) If uncut, fiberglass poses no health risk to people who
work with it. 












Simone de Beauvoir‘s work greatly influenced Betty
Friedan‘s----indeed, made it possible. Why, then, was it
Friedan who became the prophet of women‘s emancipation
in the United States? Political conditions, as well as a
certain anti-intellectual bias, prepared Americans and the
American media to better receive Friedan‘s deradicalized
and highly pragmatic The Feminine Mystique, published in
1963, than Beauvoir‘s theoretical reading of women‘s
situation in The Second Sex. In 1963 when The Second Sex
first appeared in translation in the United States, the
country had entered the silent, fearful fortress of the
anticommunist McCarthy years (1950-1954), and Beauvoir
was suspected of Marxist sympathies. Even The Nation, a
generally liberal magazine, warned its readers against
 












For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
10. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the
following is a factor in the explanation of why
The Feminine Mystique was received more
positively in the United States than was The
Second Sex?


A By 1963 political conditions in the United
States had changed.
B Friedan‘s approach to the issue of women‘s
emancipation was less radical than Beauvoir‘s.
C Readers did not recognize the powerful influence of
Beauvoir‘s book on Friedan‘s ideas.
 
―certain political leanings‖ of the author.
 
(120 words)
 











































118 







Exercise 21
 



Nevelson says, ―I have always wanted to show the
world that art is everywhere, except that it has to pass
through a creative mind.‖ Using mostly discarded wooden
objects like packing crates, broken pieces of furniture, and
abandoned architectural ornaments, all of which she has
hoarded for years, she assembles architectural constructions
of great beauty and power. Creating very freely with no
sketches, she glues and nails objects together, paints them
black, or more rarely white or gold, and places them in
boxes. These assemblages, walls, even entire environments
create a mysterious, almost awe-inspiring atmosphere.
Although she has denied any symbolic or religious intent in
her works, their three-dimensional grandeur and even their
titles, such as Sky Cathedral and Night Cathedral, suggest
 



1. Which of the following is one way in which Nevel-
son‘s art illustrates her theory as it is expressed in
the first sentence?
(A) She sculpts in wood rather than in metal or
stone.
(B) She paints her sculptures and frames them in
boxes.
(C) She makes no preliminary sketches but rather
allows the sculpture to develop as she works.
(D) She puts together pieces of ordinary objects
once used for different purposes to make her
sculptures.
(E) She does not deliberately attempt to convey
symbolic or religious meanings through her
 
such connotations.
 
(124 words)
 










































119
 
sculpture. 










Until recently astronomers have been puzzled by the
fate of red giant and supergiant stars. When the core of a
giant star whose mass surpasses 1.4 times the present
mass of our Sun (M⊙) exhausts its nuclear fuel, it is
unable to support its own weight and collapses into a tiny
neutron star. The gravitational energy released during this
implosion of the core blows off the remainder of the star
in a gigantic explosion, or a supernova.
Since around 50 percent of all stars are believed to
begin their lives with masses greater than 1.4M⊙, we
might expect that one out of every two stars would die as
a supernova. But in fact, only one star in thirty dies such a
violent death. The rest expire much more peacefully as
planetary nebulas. Apparently most massive stars manage
to lose sufficient material that their masses drop below
the critical value of 1.4 M⊙ before they exhaust their
nuclear fuel. Evidence supporting this view comes from
observations of IRC+10216, a pulsating giant star located
700 light-years away from Earth. A huge rate of mass loss
(1 M⊙ every 10,000 years) has been deduced from
infrared observations of ammonia (NH3) molecules
located in the circumstellar cloud around IRC+10216.
Recent microwave observations of carbon monoxide
(CO) molecules indicate a similar rate of mass loss and
demonstrate that the escaping material extends outward
from the star for a distance of at least one light-year.
Because we know the size of the cloud around
IRC+10216 and can use our observations of either NH3 or
CO to measure the outflow velocity, we can calculate an
age for the circumstellar cloud. IRC+10216 has
apparently expelled, in the form of molecules and dust
grains, a mass equal to that of our entire Sun within the
past ten thousand years. This implies that some stars can
shed huge amounts of matter very quickly and thus may
never expire as supernovas. Theoretical models as well as
statistics on supernovas and planetary nebulas suggest
that stars that begin their lives with masses around 6 M⊙
shed sufficient material to drop below the critical value of
1.4M⊙. IRC+10216, for example, should do this in a mere
50,000 years from its birth, only an instant in the life of a
star.
But what place does IRC+10216 have in stellar
 













































































120
 










evolution? Astronomers suggest that stars like
IRC+10216 are actually ―protoplanetary nebulas‖ –old
giant stars whose dense cores have almost but not quite
rid themselves of the fluffy envelopes of gas around them.
Once the star has lost the entire envelope, its exposed
core becomes the central star of the planetary nebula and
heats and ionizes the last vestiges of the envelope as it
flows away into space. This configuration is a
full-fledged planetary nebula, long familiar to optical
astronomers.








2. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) offer a method of calculating the age of circum-
stellar clouds
(B) describe the conditions that result in a star‘s
expiring as a supernova
(C) discuss new evidence concerning the composition
of planetary nebulas
(D) explain why fewer stars than predicted expire as
supernovas
(E) survey conflicting theories concerning the
composition of circumstellar clouds


3. The view mentioned in the middle of the second
paragraph serves to
(A) reconcile seemingly contradictory facts
(B) undermine a previously held theory
(C) take into account data previously held to be
insignificant
(D) resolve a controversy
(E) question new methods of gathering data 









4. It can be inferred from the passage that the author
assumes which of the following in the discussion of
the rate at which IRC+10216 loses mass?
(A) The circumstellar cloud surrounding
IRC+10216 consists only of CO
and NH3 molecules.
(B) The circumstellar cloud surrounding
IRC+10216 consists of material expelled
from that star.
(C) The age of a star is equal to that of its
circumstellar cloud.
(D) The rate at which IRC+10216 loses mass
varies significantly from year to year.
(E) Stars with a mass greater than 6 M⊙ lose
mass at a rate faster than stars with a mass
less than 6 M⊙ do.
 













































































121
 









5. According to information provided by the passage,
which of the following stars would astronomers
most likely describe as a planetary nebula?
(A) A star that began its life with a mass of
5.5 M⊙, has exhausted its nuclear fuel, and
has a core that is visible to astronomers
(B) A star that began its life with a mass of 6 M⊙,
lost mass at a rate of 1 M⊙ per 10,000 years,
and exhausted its nuclear fuel in 40,000 years
(C) A star that has exhausted its nuclear fuel, has a
mass of 1.2 M⊙, and is surrounded by a
circumstellar cloud that obscures its core
from view
(D) A star that began its life with a mass greater
than 6 M⊙, has just recently exhausted its
nuclear fuel, and is in the process of releasing
massive amounts of gravitational energy
(E) A star that began its life with a mass of
5.5 M⊙, has yet to exhaust its nuclear fuel,
and exhibits a rate of mass loss similar to
that of IRC+10216 









―Popular art‖ has a number of meanings, impossible to
define with any precision, which range from folklore to
junk. The poles are clear enough, but the middle tends to
blur. The Hollywood Western of the 1930‘s, for example,
has elements of folklore, but is closer to junk than to high
art or folk art. There can be great trash, just as there is bad
high art. The musicals of George Gershwin are great
popular art, never aspiring to high art. Schubert and Brahms,
however, used elements of popular music—folk themes—in
works clearly intended as high art. The case of Verdi is a
different one: he took a popular genre—bourgeois
melodrama set to music (an accurate definition of
nineteenth-century opera)—and, without altering its
fundamental nature, transmuted it into high art. (133 words)














































122
 









6. The author refers to Schubert and Brahms in order
to suggest
(A) that their achievements are no less substantial
than those of Verdi
(B) that their works are examples of great trash
(C) the extent to which Schubert and Brahms
influenced the later compositions of Verdi
(D) a contrast between the conventions of
nineteenth-century opera and those of
other musical forms
(E) that popular music could be employed in
compositions intended as high art 











7. On turning 65 years old, everyone living in the town of
Malton becomes eligible to receive a card that
guarantees discounts on most goods and services sold
in the town. Census records for 1990 show that 2,
450 inhabitants of Malton turned 64 in that year. Yet .
in 1991 over 3,000 people applied for and properly
received discount cards. So clearly some of Malton's
population growth between 1990 and 1992 must be
attributable to migration into the city by people in
their mid -60's
 













































































123
 











Which of the following is an assumption on which the
argument depends?

(A) The town of Malton has no complete census
records for 1991.
(B) The overall size of the population of Malton grew
by over 500 during 1990.
(C) Fewer people applied for and received discount
cards in 1991 than did so in 1992.
(D) Among the people 65 years old or older who
moved into Malton in 1991. there was no one
who did not apply for a discount card .
(E) In general. people who applied for and received
discount cards in 1991 first became eligible to do
so in that year 









One of the questions of interest in the study of the
evolution of spiders is whether the weaving of orb webs
evolved only once or several times. About half the
35,000 known kinds of spiders make webs; a third of the
web weavers make orb webs. Since most orb weavers
belong either to the Araneidae or the Uloboridae
families, the origin of the orb web can be determined
only by ascertaining whether the families are related.
Recent taxonomic analysis of individuals from both
families indicates that the families evolved from different
ancestors, thereby contradicting Wiehle‘s theory. This
theory postulates that the families must be related, based
on the assumption that complex behavior, such as web
building, could evolve only once. According to Kullman,
web structure is the only characteristic that suggests a
relationship between families. The families differ in
appearance, structure of body hair, and arrangement
of eyes. Only Uloborids lack venom glands. Further
identification and study of characteristic features will
undoubtedly answer the question of the evolution of
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
9. According to the passage, members of the Araneidae
family can be distinguished from members of the
Uloboridae family by all of the following


A the presence of venom glands
B the structure of their body hair
C the arrangement of their eyes


10. Which of the following statements, if true, most
weakens Wiehle‘s theory that complex behavior
could evolve only once?
(A) Horses, introduced to the New World by the
Spaniards, thrived under diverse climatic
conditions.
(B) Plants of the Palmaceae family, descendants of
a common ancestor, evolved unique seed
forms even though the plants occupy similar
habitats throughout the world.
 
the orb web.
 
(172 words)
 
(C) All mammals are descended from a small,
rodentlike animal whose physical characteris-
tics in some form are found in all its descen-
 
8. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) settle the question of whether orb webs evolved
once or more than once
(B) describe scientific speculation concerning an
issue related to the evolution of orb webs
(C) analyze the differences between the character-
istic features of spiders in the Araneidae and
Uloboridae families
(D) question the methods used by earlier investiga-
tors of the habits of spiders
(E) demonstrate that Araneidae spiders are not
related to Uloboridae spiders
 
































124
 
dants.
(D) Plants in the Cactaceae and Euphorbiaceae
families, although they often look alike and
have developed similar mechanisms to meet
the rigors of the desert, evolved indepen-
dently.
(E) The Cuban anole, which was recently intro-
duced in the Florida wilds, is quickly
replacing the native Florida chameleon
because the anole has no competitors. 










Exercise 22
 




Historically, a cornerstone of classical empiricism has
been the notion that every true generalization must be
confirmable by specific observations. In classical
empiricism, the truth of ―All balls are red,‖ for example, is
assessed by inspecting balls; any observation of a non red
ball refutes unequivocally the proposed generalization.
For W.V.O. Quine, however, this constitutes an overly
―narrow‖ conception of empiricism. ―All balls are red,‖ he
maintains, forms one strand within an entire web of
statements (our knowledge); individual observations can be
referred only to this web as a whole. As new observations
are collected, he explains, they must be integrated into the
web. Problems occur only if a contradiction develops
between a new observation, say, ―That ball is blue,‖ and the
preexisting statements. In that case, he argues, any
statement or combination of statements (not merely the
―offending‖ generalization, as in classical empiricism) can
be altered to achieve the fundamental requirement, a system
free of contradictions, even if, in some cases, the alteration
consists of labeling the new observation a ―hallucination.‖
(172 words)
 



1. According to Quine‘s conception of empiricism, if a
new observation were to contradict some statement
already within our system of knowledge, which of
the following would be true?
(A) The new observation would be rejected as
untrue.
(B) Both the observation and the statement in our
system that it contradicted would be
discarded.
(C) New observations would be added to our web
of statements in order to expand our system
of knowledge.
(D) The observation or some part of our web of
statements would need to be adjusted to
resolve the contradiction.
(E) An entirely new field of knowledge would be
created.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
2. It can be inferred from the passage that Quine
 
considers classical empiricism to be ―overly
‗narrow‘ ‖for which of the following reasons?


A Classical empiricism requires that our system
of generalizations be free of contradictions.
B Classical empiricism demands that in the case
of a contradiction between an individual
observation and a generalization, the
generalization must be abandoned.
C Classical empiricism asserts that every observation
will either confirm an existing generalization
or initiate a new generalization.










125 










Shergottites, the name given to three anomalous
achondrites (igneous meteorites lacking chondrules) so far
discovered on Earth, present scientists with a genuine
enigma. Shergottites crystallized from molten rock less
than 1.1 billion years ago (some 3.5 billion years later than
typical achondrites) and were presumably ejected into
space when an object impacted on a body similar in
chemical composition to Earth. While some scientists
speculate that shergottites derive from Io (a volcanically
active moon of Jupiter), recent measurements suggest that
since Io‘s surface is rich in sulfur and sodium, the chemical
composition of its volcanic products would probably be
unlike that of the shergottites. Moreover, any fragments
dislodged from Io by interbody impact would be unlikely
to escape the gravitational pull of Jupiter.
The only other logical source of shergottites is Mars.
Space-probe photographs indicate the existence of giant
volcanoes on the Martian surface. From the small number of
impact craters that appear on Martian lava flows, one can
estimate that the planet was volcanically active as recently
as a half-billion years ago—and may be active today.
(178 words)
































126
 










3. The passage provides information to answer which
of the following questions?
(A) What is the precise age of the solar system?
(B) How did shergottites get their name?
(C) What are the chemical properties shared by
shergottites and Martian soils?
(D) How volcanically active is the planet Jupiter?
(E) What is a major feature of the Martian surface?


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. It can be inferred from the passage that each of the
following is a consideration in determining whether
a particular planet is a possible source of shergottites
that have been discovered on Earth


A strength of the planet‘s field of gravity
B proximity of the planet to its moons
C chemical composition of the planet‘s surface 










Scientists have sought evidence of long-term solar
periodicities by examining indirect climatological data,
such as fossil records of the thickness of ancient tree rings.
These studies, however, failed to link unequivocally
terrestrial climate and the solar-activity cycle, or even to
confirm the cycle's past existence.
 










5. It can be inferred from the passage that studies
attempting to use tree-ring thickness to locate possible
links between solar periodicity and terrestrial climate are
based on which of the following assumptions?
(A) The solar-activity cycle existed in its present form
during the time period in which the tree
rings grew.
(B) The biological mechanisms causing tree growth
are unaffected by short-term weather pat terns.
(C) Average tree-ring thickness varies from species
to species.
(D) Tree-ring thicknesses reflect changes in terrestrial
climate.
(E) Both terrestrial climate and the solar-activity
cycle randomly affect tree-ring thickness.











































127 










In Raisin in the Sun, Lorraine Hansberry does not reject
integration or the economic and moral promise of the
American dream; rather, she remains loyal to this dream
while looking, realistically, at its incomplete realization.
Once we recognize this dual vision, we can accept the
play's ironic nuances as deliberate social commentaries by
 










6.The author's primary purpose in this passage is to
(A) explain some critics' refusal to consider Raisin
in the Sun a deliberately ironic play
(B)suggest that ironic nuances ally Raisin in the
Sun with Du Bois' and Fanon's writings
(C) analyze the fundamental dramatic conflicts in
 
Hansberry rather than
 
as the "unintentional" irony that
 
Raisin in the Sun
 
Bigsby attributes to the work. Indeed a curiously persistent
refusal to credit Hansberry with a capacity for intentional
irony has led some critics to interpret the play's thematic
conflicts as mere confusion, contradiction, or eclecticism.
Isaacs, for example, cannot easily reconcile Hansberry's
intense concern for her race with her ideal of human
reconciliation. But the play's complex view of Black
self-esteem and human solidarity as compatible is no more
"contradictory" than Du Bois' famous, well-considered
ideal of ethnic self-awareness coexisting with human unity,
or Fanon's emphasis on an ideal internationalism that also
 
(D) justify the inclusion of contradictory elements
in Raisin in the Sun
(E) affirm the thematic coherence underlying Raisin in
the Sun


7. Select the sentence that the author of the passage
reinforce his criticism of responses such as Isaacs' to
Raisin in the Sun?


8.The author of the passage would probably consider
which of the following judgments to be most similar
 
accommodates national identities and roles.
 
(158 words)
 







































128
 
to the reasoning of critics?
(A) The world is certainly flat; therefore, the person
proposing to sail around it is unquestionably
foolhardy.
(B) Radioactivity cannot be directly perceived;
therefore, a scientist could not possibly control
it in a laboratory.
(C) The painter of this picture could not intend it to
be funny, therefore, its humor must result
from a lack of skill.
(D) Traditional social mores are beneficial to culture;
therefore, anyone who deviates from
them acts destructively.
(E) Filmmakers who produce documentaries deal
exclusively with facts; therefore, a filmmaker
who reinterprets particular events is misleading us. 










The transplantation of organs from one individual to
another normally involves two major problems: (1) organ
rejection is likely unless the transplantation antigens of
both individuals are nearly identical, and (2) the
introduction of any unmatched transplantation antigens
induces the development by the recipient of donor-specific
lymphocytes that will produce violent rejection of further
transplantations from that donor. However, we have found
that, among many strains of rats, liver transplants are never
rejected, and that they even induce a state of donor-specific
unresponsiveness. Our hypothesis is that (1) many strains
of rats simply cannot mount a sufficiently vigorous
destructive immune-response (using lymphocytes) to
outstrip the liver‘s relatively great capacity to protect itself
from immune-response damage and that (2) the systemic
unresponsiveness observed is due to concentration of the
recipient‘s donor-specific lymphocytes at the site of the
 










9 The primary purpose of the passage is to treat the
accepted generalizations about organ transplantation in
which of the following ways?
(A) Explicate their main features
(B) Suggest an alternative to them
(C) Examine their virtues and limitations
(D) Criticize the major evidence used to support them
(E) Present findings that qualify them



10. Which of the following new findings about strains
of rats that do not normally reject liver transplants,
if true, would support the authors‘ hypothesis?
I. Stomach transplants are accepted by the
recipients in all cases.
II. Increasing the strength of the recipient‘s
immune-response reaction can induce
 
liver transplant.
 
(138 words)
 








































129
 
liver-transplant rejection.
III. Organs from any other donor can be transplanted
without rejection after liver transplantation.
IV. Preventing lymphocytes from being concentrated
at the liver transplant produces acceptance of skin
transplants.


(A) II only
(B) I and III only
(C) II and IV only
(D) I, II, and III only
(E) I, III, and IV only 










Exercise 23
 




The common belief of some linguists that each language
is a perfect vehicle for the thoughts of the nation speaking
it is in some ways the exact counterpart of the conviction of
the Manchester school of economics that supply and
demand will regulate everything for the best. Just as
economists were blind to the numerous cases in which the
law of supply and demand left actual wants unsatisfied, so
also many linguists are deaf to those instances in which the
very nature of a language calls forth misunderstandings in
everyday conversation, and in which, consequently, a word
has to be modified or defined in order to present the idea
intended by the speaker: "He took his stick-no, not John's,
but his own." No language is perfect, and if we admit this
truth, we must also admit that it is not unreasonable to
investigate the relative merits of different languages or of
 




1.The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) analyze an interesting feature of the English
language
(B) refute a belief held by some linguists
(C) show that economic theory is relevant to
linguistic study
(D) illustrate the confusion that can result from the
improper use of language
(E) suggest a way in which languages can be made
more nearly perfect


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
2. The misunderstanding presented by the author in
the passage is similar to which of the following?
 
different details in languages.
 
( 155 words)
 






































130
 
A X uses the word "you" to refer to a group, but Y
thinks that X is referring to one person only.
B X mistakenly uses the word "anomaly"
to refer to a typical example, but Y knows that
"anomaly" means "exception."
C X uses the word "bachelor" to mean "unmarried
man," but Y mistakenly thinks that bachelor means
"unmarried woman."


3.In presenting the argument, the author does all of
the following EXCEPT
(A) give an example
(B) draw a conclusion
(C) make a generalization
(D) make a comparison
(E) present a paradox 









Currently, there are two models of solar activity. The
first supposes that the Sun's internal motions (caused by
rotation and convection) interact with its large-scale
magnetic field to produce a dynamo, a device in which
mechanical energy is converted into the energy of a
magnetic field. In short, the Sun's large-scale magnetic
field is taken to be self-sustaining, so that the solar-
activity cycle it drives would be maintained with little
overall change for perhaps billions of years. The
alternative explanation supposes that the Sun's large-scale
magnetic field is a remnant of the field the Sun acquired
when it formed, and is not sustained against decay. In this
model, the solar mechanism dependent on the Sun's
magnetic field runs down more quickly. Thus, the
characteristics of the solar-activity cycle could be
expected to change over a long period of time.
(140 words)
 













































































131
 









4.Which of the following statements about the two
models of solar activity, as they are described in the
passage, is accurate?


(A) In both models cyclical solar activity is regarded
as a long-lived feature of the Sun, persisting
with little change over billions of years.
(B) In both models the solar-activity cycle is
hypothesized as being dependent on the
large-scale solar magnetic field.
(C) In one model the Sun's magnetic field is
thought to play a role in causing solar activity,
whereas in the other model it is not.
(D) In one model solar activity is presumed to be
unrelated to terrestrial phenomena, whereas
in the other model solar activity is thought to
have observable effects on the Earth.
(E) In one model cycles of solar activity with period-
icities longer than a few decades arc
considered to be impossible, whereas in the other
model such cycles are predicted. 











Like most other coastal towns in Norway, the town of
Stavanger was quiet and peaceful until the early 1960's,
when it became Norway's center for offshore oil
exploration. Between then and now, violent crime and
vandalism in Stavanger have greatly increased.
Stavanager's social problems probably resulted from the
oil boom, since violent crime and vandalism have
remained low in coastal towns in Norway that have had
no oil boom.
 













































































132
 











5. Which of the following most accurately describes the
method of reasoning employed in the argument?

(A) Arguing that a circumstance is not a precondition
for a phenomenon on the grounds that the
phenomenon sometimes occurs where the
circumstance is not present
(B) Arguing that a circumstance is a cause of a
phenomenon on the grounds that the
phenomenon has not occurred where the
circumstance is not present
(C) Arguing that a particular thing cannot have
caused a phenomenon because that thing was not
present before the phenomenon occurred
(D) Attempting to establish a claim by arguing that
the denial of the claim is inconsistent with the
observed facts
(E) Attempting to establish that certain circumstances
that would have had to occur for a particular
explanation to be correct could not have occurred 












Modern archaeological finds can still contribute
much to the study of ancient literature. For example, forty
years ago a survey of the early Greek dramatist
Aeschylus' plays would have started with The Suppliant
Women. Many factors internal to the play, but perhaps
most especially the prominence of the chorus, led
scholars to consider it one of Aeschylus' earlier works.
The consensus was that here was a drama truly reflecting
an early stage in the evolution of tragedy out of choral
lyric. The play was dated as early as the 490's B.C., in
any event, well before Aeschylus' play The Persians of
472 B.C. Then, in 1952, a fragment of papyrus found at
Oxyrhynchus was published. The fragment announced
that Aeschylus won first prize with his Danaid tetralogy,
of which The Suppliant Women is the opening play, and
defeated Sophocles in the process. Sophocles did not
compete in any dramatic contest before 468 B.C., when
he won his first victory. Hence, the Danaid tetralogy must
 












6. According to the passage, in the absence of definite
knowledge concerning the dates of composition of
ancient literary works, literary historians do which
of the following when trying to establish the
chronology of an author's work?


(A) Make assumptions about a single work's date
of composition if such assumptions would
not seriously affect interpretations of other
works by the same author.
(B) Draw inferences concerning the date of a
work's composition based on evidence internal
to that work and on the author's other works.
(C) Ignore the date of a work's composition which
is supplied by archaeological research when
literary factors internal to the work contradict
that date.
(D) Refrain from speculation concerning a work's
 
be put after 468 B.C.
 
(169 words)
 





































133
 
date of composition unless archaeological
finds produce information concerning it.
(E) Estimate the date of a work's composition
without attempting to relate it to the author's
development as an artist. 









As Gilbert White, Darwin, and others observed long
ago, all species appear to have the innate capacity to
increase their numbers from generation to generation. The
task for ecologists is to untangle the environmental and
biological factors that hold this intrinsic capacity for
population growth in check over the long run. The great
variety of dynamic behaviors exhibited by different
populations makes this task more difficult: some
populations remain roughly constant from year to year;
others exhibit regular cycles of abundance and scarcity; still
others vary wildly, with outbreaks and crashes that are in
some cases plainly correlated with the weather, and in other
cases not.
To impose some order on this kaleidoscope of patterns,
one school of thought proposes dividing populations into
two groups. These ecologists posit that the relatively steady
populations have "density- dependent" growth parameters;
 









In order to understand the nature of the ecologist's
investigation, we may think of the density-dependent
effects on growth parameters as the "signal" ecologists
are trying to isolate and interpret, one that tends to make
the population increase from relatively low values or
decrease from relatively high ones, while the density-
independent effects act to produce "noise" in the population
dynamics. For populations that remain relatively constant,
or that oscillate around repeated cycles, the signal can be
fairly easily characterized and its effects described, even
though the causative biological mechanism may remain
unknown. For irregularly fluctuating populations, we are
likely to have too few observations to have any hope of
extracting the signal from the overwhelming noise. But it
now seems clear that all populations are regulated by a
mixture of density- dependent and density-independent
effects in varying proportions.
 
that is, rates of birth, death, and migration which depend
strongly on population density. The highly varying
populations have "density-independent" growth parameters,
with vital, rates buffeted by environmental events; these
rates fluctuate in a way that is wholly independent of
population density.
This dichotomy has its uses, but it can cause problems
if taken too literally. For one thing, no population can be
driven entirely by density-independent factors all the time.
No matter how severely or unpredictably birth, death and
migration rates may be fluctuating around their long-term
averages, if there were no density-dependent effects, the
population would, in the long run, either increase or
decrease without bound (barring a miracle by which gains
and losses canceled exactly). Put another way, it may be
that on average 99 percent of all deaths in a population
arise from density-independent causes, and only one
percent from factors varying with density. The factors
making up the one percent may seem unimportant, and
their cause may be correspondingly hard to determine. Yet,
whether recognized or not, they will usually determine the
long-term average population density.







134 









7.The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
(A) discussing two categories of factors that control
population growth and assessing their relative
importance
(B) describing how growth rates in natural popula-
tions fluctuate over time and explaining why
these changes occur
(C) proposing a hypothesis concerning population
sizes and suggesting ways to test it
(D) posing a fundamental question about environ-
mental factors in population growth and pre-
senting some currently accepted answers
(E) refuting a commonly accepted theory about
population density and offering a new alter-
native


8. Select the sentence in the passage that presents the
author‘s attitude toward the dichotomy discussed in the
second paragraph.
 













































































135
 









9.Which of the following statements can be inferred
from the last paragraph?
(A) For irregularly fluctuating populations, doubling
the number of observations made will
probably result in the isolation of density-
dependent effects.
(B) Density-dependent effects on population
dynamics do not occur as frequently as do
density-independent effects.
(C) At present, ecologists do not understand any
of the underlying causes of the density-
dependent effects they observe in population
dynamics..
(D) Density-dependent effects on growth parameters
are thought to be caused by some sort of
biochemical "signaling" that ecologists hope
eventually to understand.
(E) It is sometimes possible to infer the existence of
a density-dependent factor controlling population
growth without understanding its
causative mechanism.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
10. .According to the passage, all of the following
behaviors have been exhibited by different
populations


A roughly constant population levels from year to year
B regular cycles of increases and decreases in numbers
C erratic increases in numbers correlated with the
weather 










Exercise 24
 






Excavations at a Mayan site have uncovered jewelry
workshops located some distance from the center of the
site on roads radiating outward from the center. Since the
nobility lived only in the area of the center, archaeologists
conclude that these workshops made jewelry, not for the
nobility, but for a middle class that must have been
prosperous enough to afford it.
 
































































136
 






1. The archaeologists' argument assumes which of the
following about the artisans who worked in the
workshops'

(A) They were themselves prosperous members of a
middle class.
(B) They lived near their workshops.
(C) Their products were not made from the same
materials as was jewelry for the nobility.
(D) They worked full-time at making jewelry and did
not engage in farming
(E) They did not take the jewelry they had made in
the workshops to clients who were members of
the nobility. 









Practically speaking, the artistic maturing of the
cinema was the single-handed achievement of David W.
Griffith (1875-1948). Before Griffith, photography in
dramatic films consisted of little more than placing the
actors before a stationary camera and showing them in
full length as they would have appeared on stage. From
the beginning of his career as a director, however, Griffith,
because of his love of Victorian painting, employed
composition. He conceived of the camera image as
having a foreground and a rear ground, as well as the
middle distance preferred by most directors. By 1910 he
was using close-ups to reveal significant details of the
scene or of the acting and extreme long shots to achieve a
sense of spectacle and distance. His appreciation of the
camera‘s possibilities produced novel dramatic effects.
(131 words)
 













































































137
 









2. Select the sentence in which the author asserts that
Griffith played an important role in the development of
the cinema.


3. The author‘s attitude toward photography in the
cinema before Griffith can best be described as
(A) sympathetic
(B) nostalgic
(C) amused
(D) condescending
(E) hostile 









Because of its accuracy in outlining the Earth's
subsurface, the seismic-reflection method remains the most
important tool in the search for petroleum reserves. In field
practice, a subsurface is mapped by line arranging a series of
wave-train sources, such as small dynamite explosions, in a
grid pattern. As each source is activated, it generates a
wave train that moves downward at a speed determined
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. According to the passage, in the seismic-reflection
method which of the following have a significant
effect on the signal detected by the seismic
instruments
A presence of unrelated wave trains
 
uniquely by the rock's elastic characteristics. As rock
interfaces are crossed, the elastic characteristics
encountered generally change abruptly, which causes part
of the energy to be reflected back to the surface, where it is
 
B
C
 
placement of the seismic instruments
properties of rocks through which the wave
train has traveled
 
recorded by seismic instruments. The seismic records must
be processed to correct for positional differences between
the source and the receiver, for unrelated wave trains, and
for multiple reflections from the rock interfaces. Then the
data acquired at each of the specific source locations are
combined to generate a physical profile of the subsurface,
which can eventually be used to select targets for drilling.
(162 words)
 
5. It can be inferred from the passage that the seismic-
reflection method would be likely to yield an inaccu-
rate physical profile of the subsurface in which of
the following circumstances?
(A) If the speed at which the wave train moved
downward changed
(B) If the receiver were not positioned directly at
the wave-train source
(C) If the rock on one side of a rock interface had
similar elastic characteristics to those of the
rock on the other side
(D) If the seismic records obtained for the different
sources in a grid were highly similar to each other
(E) If there were no petroleum deposits beneath the
area defined by the grid of wave-train sources


6. Which of the following best describes the
organization of the passage?
(A) A method is criticized, and an alternative is
suggested.
(B) An illustration is examined, and some errors are
exposed.
(C) An assertion is made, and a procedure is
outlined.
(D) A series of examples is presented, and a
conclusion is drawn.
 
(E)
 
A hypothesis is advanced, and supporting
 
evidence is supplied.







138 









Paradoxically, with all of our natural, intuitive,
commonsense capacity to grasp human relations, the
science of human relations has been one of the last to
develop. Different explanations of this paradox have been
suggested. One is that science would destroy the vain and
pleasing illusions people have about themselves; but we
might ask why people have always loved to read
pessimistic, debunking writings, from Ecclesiastes to
Freud. It has also been proposed that just because we
know so much about people intuitively, there has been
less incentive for studying them scientifically; why
should one develop a theory, carry out systematic
observations, or make predictions about the obvious?
(107 words)
 













































































139
 









7. The author refers to people who are attracted to
"pessimistic, debunking writings" in order to support
which of the following ideas?
(A) Interesting books about human relations are
typically pessimistic.
(B) People tend to ignore scientific explanations
of human relations.
(C) People rarely hold pleasing illusions about
themselves.
(D) A scientific approach human relations
would undermine the pleasing illusions people
hold of themselves.
(E) It is doubtful that the science of human relations
developed slowly because of a desire
to maintain pleasing illusions.


8. In the context in which it appears, "paradox" most
nearly means
A diametrical opposition
B unintended irony
C stark dichotomy
D exact counterpoint
E contradiction to common sense 









Why during sickness should body temperature of
warm-blooded animal rise? It has long been known that the
level of serum iron in animals falls during infection.
Garibaldi first suggested a relationship between fever and
iron. He found that microbial synthesis of siderophores --
substances that bind iron -- in bacteria of the genus
Salmonella declined at environmental temperatures above
37°C and stopped at 40.3°C. Thus, fever would make it
more difficult for an infecting bacterium to acquire iron and
thus to multiply. Cold-blooded animals were used to test
this hypothesis. Kluger reported that of iguanas infected
with the potentially lethal bacterium A. hydrophilia, more
survived at temperatures of 42°C than at 37°C, even though
healthy animals prefer the lower temperature. When
animals at 42°C were injected with an iron solution,
however, mortality rates increased significantly.
(135 words)
 













































































140
 









9. According to the passage, Garibaldi determined
which of the following?
(A) That serum iron is produced through microbial
synthesis
(B) That microbial synthesis of siderophores in
warm-blooded animals is more efficient at
higher temperatures.
(C) That only iron bound to other substances can
be used by bacteria.
(D) That there is a relationship between the
synthesis of siderophores in bacteria of the genus
Salmonella and environmental temperature.
(E) That bacteria of the genus Salmonella require
iron as a nutrient.


10. If it were to be determined that similar phenomena
occur in warm-blooded animals, which of the
following, assuming each is possible, is likely to be the
most effective treatment for warm-blooded animals
with bacterial infections?
(A) Administering a medication that lowers the
animals' body temperature
(B) Injecting the animals with an iron solution
(C) Administering a medication that makes serum
iron unavailable to bacteria
(D) Providing the animals with reduced-iron diets
(E) Keeping the animals in an environment with
temperatures higher than 37°C 







Exercise 25
 



Since 1953, many experimental attempts to synthesize
the chemical constituents of life under "primitive Earth
conditions" have demonstrated that a variety of the
complex molecules currently making up living organisms
could have been present in the early ocean and atmosphere,
with only one limitation: such molecules are synthesized
far less readily when oxygen-containing compounds
dominate the atmosphere. Therefore some scientists
postulate that the Earth's earliest atmosphere, unlike that of
today, was dominated by hydrogen, methane, and ammonia.
From these studies, scientists have concluded that the
surface of the primitive Earth was covered with oceans
containing the molecules fundamental to life. Although, at
present, scientists cannot explain how these relatively small
molecules combined to produce larger, more complex
molecules, some scientists have precipitously ventured
hypotheses that attempt to explain the development, from
lager molecules, of the earliest self-duplicating organisms.
(138 words)
 



































































141
 



1. According to the passage, which of the following
can be inferred about the process by which the
chemical constituents of life were synthesized under
primitive Earth conditions?
(A) The synthesis is unlikely to occur under current
atmospheric conditions
(B) The synthesis is common in modern laboratories.
(C)The synthesis occurs more readily in the
atmosphere than in the ocean.
(D)The synthesis easily produces the most complex
organic molecules.
(E)The synthesis is accelerated by the presence of
oxygen-containing compounds.


2.It can be inferred from the passage that "some scien-
tists" assume which of the following concerning "
larger, more complex molecules"
(A) The earliest atmosphere was forward primarily
of these molecules.
(B) Chemical processes involving these molecules
proceeded much more slowly under primitive
Earth conditions.
(C) The presence of these molecules would necessarily
precede the existence of simple organisms.
(D) Experimental techniques will never be sufficiently
sophisticated to produce in the laboratory simple
organisms from these chemical constituents.
(E) Explanations could easily be developed to
explain how simple molecules combined to
form these more complex ones. 









It is frequently assumed that the mechanization of work
has a revolutionary effect on the lives of the people who
operate the new machines and on the society into which the
machines have been introduced. For example, it has been
suggested that the employment of women in industry took
them out of the household, their traditional sphere, and
fundamentally altered their position in society. In the
nineteenth century, when women began to enter factories,
Jules Simon, a French politician, warned that by doing so,
women would give up their femininity. Friedrich Engels,
however, predicted that women would be liberated from the
"social, legal, and economic subordination" of the family by
 









blue-collar work. Fundamentally, however, the conditions
under which women work have changed little since before
the Industrial Revolution: the segregation of occupations by
gender, lower pay for women as a group, jobs that require
relatively low levels of skill and offer women little
opportunity for advancement all persist, while women's
household labor remains demanding. Recent historical
investigation has led to a major revision of the notion that
technology is always inherently revolutionary in its effects
on society. Mechanization may even have slowed any
change in the traditional position of women both in the
labor market and in the home.
 
technological developments that made possible the
recruitment of "the whole female sex into public industry."
Observers thus differed concerning the social desirability of
mechanization's effects, but they agreed that it would
transform women's lives.
Historians, particularly those investigating the history
of women, now seriously question this assumption of
transforming power. They conclude that such dramatic
technological innovations as the spinning jenny, the sewing
machine, the typewriter, and the vacuum cleaner have not
resulted in equally dramatic social changes in women's
economic position or in the prevailing evaluation of
women's work. The employment of young women in textile
mills during the Industrial Revolution was largely an
extension of an older pattern of employment of young,
single women as domestics. It was not the change in office
technology, but rather the separation of secretarial work,
previously seen as an apprenticeship for beginning
managers, from administrative work that in the 1880's
created a new class of "dead-end" jobs, thenceforth
considered "women's work." The increase in the numbers
of married women employed outside the home in the
twentieth century had less to do with the mechanization of
housework and an increase in leisure time for these women
than it did with their own economic necessity and with high
marriage rates that shrank the available pool of single
women workers, previously, in many cases, the only
women employers would hire.
Women's work has changed considerably in the past
200 years, moving from the household to the office or the
factory, and later becoming mostly white-collar instead of

142 









3.Which of the following statements best summarizes
the main idea of the passage?
(A) The effects of the mechanization of women's
work have not borne out the frequently held
assumption that new technology is inherently
revolutionary.
(B) Recent studies have shown that mechanization
revolutionizes a society's traditional values
and the customary roles of its members.
(C) Mechanization has caused the nature of
women's work to change since the Industrial
Revolution.
(D) The mechanization of work creates whole new
classes of jobs that did not previously exist.
(E) The mechanization of women's work, while
extremely revolutionary it its effects, has not,
on the whole, had the deleterious effects that
some critics had feared.


4.It can be inferred front the passage that the author
would consider which of the following to be an indi-
cation of a fundamental alteration in the conditions
of women's work?
(A) Statistics showing that the majority of women
now occupy white-collar positions
(B) Interviews with married men indicating that
they are now doing some household tasks
(C) Surveys of the labor market documenting the
recent creation of a new class of jobs in electronics
in which women workers outnumber men four to
one
(D) Census results showing that working women's
wages and salaries are, on the average, as high as
those of working men
(E) Enrollment figures from universities demonstrating
that increasing numbers of young women are
choosing to continue their education beyond the
undergraduate level
 













































































143
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
5. Which of the following statement about many
employers before the twentieth century are NOT
implied in the passage?


A They did not employ women in factories.
B They tended to employ single rather than married
women.
C They hired women only when qualified men
were not available to fill the open positions.


6.Which of the following best describes the function of
the concluding sentence of the passage?
(A) It sums up the general points concerning the
mechanization of work made in the passage
as a whole.
(B) It draws a conclusion concerning the effects
of the mechanization of work which goes
beyond the evidence presented in the passage
as a whole.
(C) It restates the point concerning technology
made in the sentence immediately preceding it.
(D) It qualifies the author's agreement with scholars
who argue for a major revision in the assess
ment of the impact of mechanization on society
(E) It suggests a compromise between two seemingly
contradictory views concerning the effects
of mechanization on society. 











Over the last 40 years there has been a great increase not
only in the number of agricultural pesticides in use but also
in the care and sophistication with which they are used by
farmers. Nevertheless, the proportion of agricultural crops
lost to certain pests worldwide has increased over the same
period, even when the pests concerned have not developed
resistance to existing pesticides.
 













































































144
 











7. Which of the following, if true. best explains how
improvements in pesticide use have been
accompanied by greater losses to certain pests?

(A) Some dangerous but relatively ineffective
pesticides common 40 years ago are no longer in
widespread use.
(B) As pesticides have become increasingly pest-
specific, controlling certain pests with pesticides
has turned out to cost more in many cases than
the value of crop losses caused by those pests.
(C) Because today's pesticides typically have more
specific application conditions than did
pesticides in use 40 years ago, today's farmers
observe their fields more closely than did farmers
40 years ago.
(D) Certain pest-control methods that some farmers
use today do not involve the use of chemical
pesticides but are just as effective in eliminating
insect pests as those that do.
(E) Forty years ago, much less was known about the
effects of pesticides on humans and other
mammalian species than is now known. 












Researchers are finding that in many ways an individual
bacterium is more analogous to a component cell of a
multicellular organism than it is to a free-living,
autonomous organism. Anabaena, a freshwater bacteria is a
case in point. Among photosynthetic bacteria, Anabaena is
unusual: it is capable of both photosynthesis and nitrogen
fixation. Within a single cell, these two biochemical
processes are incompatible: oxygen produced during
photosynthesis, inactivates the nitrogenase required for
nitrogen fixation. In Anabaena communities, however,
these processes can coexist. When fixed nitrogen
compounds are abundant, Anabaena is strictly
photosynthetic and its cells are all alike. When nitrogen
levels are low, however, specialized cells called heterocysts
are produced which lack chlorophyll (necessary for
photosynthesis) but which can fix nitrogen by converting
nitrogen gas into a usable form. Submicroscopic channels
develop which connect the heterocyst cells with the
photosynthetic ones and which are used for transferring
cellular products between the two kinds of Anabaena cells.
(156 words)
 













































































145
 












8.It can be inferred from the passage that cell differen-
tiation within Anabaena is regulated by the
(A) amount of oxygen Anabaena cells produce
(B) season of the year
(C) amount of fixed nitrogen compounds available
(D) number of microscopic channels uniting
Anabaena cells
(E) amount of chlorophyll in Anabaena cells


9.The author uses the example of Anabaena to illustrate
the
(A) uniqueness of bacteria among unicellular organ-
isms
(B) inadequacy of an existing view of bacteria
(C) ability of unicellular organisms to engage in
photosynthesis
(D) variability of a freshwater bacteria
(E) difficulty of investigating even the simplest
unicellular organisms 









Scholars often fail to see that music played an important
role in the preservation of African culture in the United States.
They correctly note that slavery stripped some cultural
elements from Black people-their political and economic
systems-but they underestimate the significance of music in
sustaining other African cultural values. African music, unlike
 









10. In the argument given , the two highlighted portions
play which of the following roles?
A The first sentence introduces the topic of the
passage and the last one summarizes the passage.
B The first sentence presents a thesis and the last one
further develops the thesis.
 
the music of some other cultures, was based on a total vision
of life in which music was not an isolated social domain. In
African culture music was pervasive, serving not only religion,
 
C


D
 
The first sentence summarizes the main idea of the
passage and the last one paraphrases it literally.
The first sentence presents a context for the
 
but all phases of life, including birth, death, work, and play.
Music, like art in general, was so inextricably a part of African
culture that it became a crucial means of preserving the
culture during and after the dislocations of slavery.
(126 words)
 






















































146
 
discussion of the passage and the last one
summarizes the discussion.
E The first sentence presents the negative thesis of the
passage and the last one presents the positive thesis. 










Exercise 26




1. Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the
 
Authorities in California required drivers to use their
headlights on a certain road during the daytime as well
as at night and found that annual accident rates on the
road fell 15 percent from the previous level. They
concluded that applying the daytime rule statewide
would lead to a similar reduction in accidents.
 



























































147
 
authorities' argument?

(A) Because an alternate route became available, the
volume of traffic on the test road decreased during
the test period.
(B) Drivers were informed of the requirement to use
their headlights on the test road by means of a
series of three conspicuous signs in each direction
of travel.
(C) Under certain conditions, among them fog and
heavy rain, most drivers in California already use
their headlights during the daytime.
(D) Full-scale application of the daytime rule would
cause headlight bulbs to burn out sooner than
they currently do and thus to require more
frequent replacement.
(E) The test road was selected to include a great
variety of the sorts of road conditions that drivers
in California are likely to encounter. 









It has long been known that during an El Nino, two
conditions exist: (1) unusually warm water extends
along the eastern Pacific, principally along the coasts of
Ecuador and Peru, and (2) winds blow from the west into
the warmer air rising over the warm water in the east.
These winds tend to create a feedback mechanism by
driving the warmer surface water into a "pile" that blocks
the normal upwelling of deeper, cold water in the east and
further warms the eastern water, thus strengthening the
wind still more. The contribution of the recent model is to
show that the winds of an El Nino, which raise sea level in
the cast, simultaneously send a signal to the west lowering
sea level. According to the model, that signal is generated
as a negative Rossby wave, a wave of depressed, or
negative, sea level, that moves westward parallel to the
equator at 25 to 85 kilometers per day.
(158 words)
 













































































148
 









2. According to the passage, which of the following
features is characteristic of an El Nino?
(A) Cold coastal water near Peru
(B) Winds blowing from the west
(C) Random occurrence
(D) Worldwide effects
(E) Short duration


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
3. It can be inferred from the passage that which of
the following would result fairly immediately from
the cessation of the winds of an El Nino?


A Negative Rossby waves would cease to be
generated in the eastern Pacific.
B The sea level in the eastern Pacific would fall.
C The surface water in the eastern Pacific would
again be cooled by being mixed with deep water. 










In a recent study, David Cressy examines two central
questions concerning English immigration to New England
in the 1630's: what kinds of people immigrated and why?
Cressy finds that most adult immigrants were skilled in
farming or crafts, were literate, and were organized in
families. Each of these characteristics sharply distinguishes
the 21,000 people who left for New England in the 1630's
from most of the approximately 377,000 English people
who had immigrating, to America by 1700.
With respect to their reasons for immigrating, Cressy
does not deny the frequently noted fact that some of the
immigrants of the 1630's, most notably the organizers and
clergy, advanced religious explanations for departure, but
he finds that such explanations usually assumed primacy
only in retrospect. When he moves beyond the principal
actors, he finds that religious explanations were less
frequently offered and he concludes that most people
immigrated because they were recruited by promises of
material improvement.
(155 words)
 













































































149
 










4. According to the passage, Cressy would agree with
which of the following statements about the orga-
nizers among the English immigrants to New
England in the 1630's?
I. Most of them were clergy.
II. Some of them offered a religious explanation
for their immigration.
III. They did not offer any reasons for their
immigration until some time after they
had immigrated.
IV. They were more likely than the average
immigrant to be motivated by material
considerations.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) II and III only
(D) I, III, and IV only
(E) II, III, and IV only


5.The passage suggests that the majority of those
English people who had immigrated to America
by the late seventeenth century were
(A) clergy
(B) young children
(C) organized in families
(D) skilled in crafts
(E) illiterate 









Traditionally, pollination by wind has been viewed as
a reproductive process marked by random events in
which the vagaries of the wind are compensated for by
the generation of vast quantities of pollen, so that the
ultimate production of new seeds is assured at the
expense of producing much more pollen than is actually
used. Because the potential hazards pollen grains are
subject to as they are transported over long distances are
enormous, wind-pollinated plants have, in the view above,
compensated for the ensuing loss of pollen through
happenstance by virtue of producing an amount of pollen
that is one to three orders of magnitude greater than the
amount produced by species pollinated by insects.
However, a number of features that are characteristic
of wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen waste. For
example, many wind-pollinated species fail to release
pollen when wind speeds are low or when humid
conditions prevail. Recent studies suggest another way in
which species compensate for the inefficiency of wind
pollination. These studies suggest that species frequently
take advantage of the physics of pollen motion by
generating specific aerodynamic environments within the
immediate vicinity of their female reproductive organs. It
is the morphology of these organs that dictates the pattern
of airflow disturbances through which pollen must travel.
The speed and direction of the airflow disturbances can
combine with the physical properties of a species' pollen
to produce a species-specific pattern of pollen collision on
the surfaces of female reproductive organs. Provided that
these surfaces are strategically located, the consequences
of this combination can significantly increase the
pollen-capture efficiency of a female reproductive organ.
A critical question that remains to be answered is
whether the morphological attributes of the female
reproductive organs of wind-pollinated species are
evolutionary adaptations to wind pollination or are merely
fortuitous. A complete resolution of the question is as yet
impossible since adaptation must be evaluated for each
species within its own unique functional context.
However, it must be said that, while evidence of such
evolutionary adaptations does exist in some species, one
must be careful about attributing morphology to
adaptation. For example, the spiral arrangement of
 













































































150
 









scale-bract complexes on ovule-bearing pine cones, where
the female reproductive organs of conifers are located, is
important to the production of airflow patterns that spiral
over the cone's surfaces, thereby passing airborne pollen
from one scale to the next. However, these patterns
cannot be viewed as an adaptation to wind pollination
because the spiral arrangement occurs in a number of
non-wind-pollinated plant lineages and is regarded as a
characteristic of vascular plants, of which conifers are
only one kind, as a whole. Therefore, the spiral
arrangement is not likely to be the result of a direct
adaptation to wind pollination.
(453 words) 









6.The author of the passage is primarily concerned
with discussing
(A) the current debate on whether the morphological
attributes of wind-pollinated plants are
evolutionary adaptations
(B) the kinds of airflow patterns that permit wind-
pollinated plants to capture pollen most effi-
ciently
(C) the ways in which the reproductive processes of
wind-pollinated plants are controlled by
random events
(D) a recently proposed explanation of a way in
which wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen
waste
(E) a specific morphological attribute that permits
one species of wind-pollinated plant to
capture pollen


7. According to the passage, the "aerodynamic
environments" mentioned in the second paragraph,
when they are produced, are primarily determined by
the
(A) presence of insects near the plant
(B) physical properties of the plant's pollen
(C) shape of the plant's female reproductive organs
(D) amount of pollen generated by the plant
(E) number of seeds produced by the plant
 













































































151
 









8. The passage suggests that the recent studies cited in the
second paragraph have not done which of the following?
(A) Made any distinctions between different species
of wind-pollinated plants.
(B) Considered the physical properties of the pollen
that is produced by wind-pollinated plants.
(C) Indicated the general range within which plant-
generated airflow disturbances are apt to
occur.
(D) Included investigations of the physics of pollen
motion and its relationship to the efficient
capture of pollen by the female reproductive
organs of wind-pollinated plants.
(E) Demonstrated that the morphological attributes
of the female reproductive organs of wind-
pollinated plants are usually evolutionary
adaptations to wind pollination.


9. It can be inferred from the passage that the claim
that the spiral arrangement of scale-bract complexes
on an ovule-bearing pine cone is an adaptation to
wind pollination would be more convincing if which
of the following were true?
(A) Such an arrangement occurred only in wind-
pollinated plants.
(B) Such an arrangement occurred in vascular
plants as a whole.
(C) Such an arrangement could be shown to be
beneficial to pollen release.
(D) The number of bracts could be shown to have
increased over time.
(E) The airflow patterns over the cone's surfaces
could be shown to be produced by such
arrangements. 










Isadora Duncan's masterly writings on the dance reveal
the depth of her determination to create a lyric form of the art
which was free of characterization, storytelling, and the
theatrical exhibition of skills. She wished to discard the
traditional methods and established vocabularies of such dance
forms as ballet and to explore the internal sources of human
expressiveness. She shunned bodily ornamentation and
strove to use only the natural movements of her body,
undistorted by acrobatic exaggeration and stimulated only by
internal compulsion. In her recitals Duncan danced to the music
of Beethoven, Wagner, and Gluck, among others, but,
contrary to popular belief, she made no attempt to visualize or
to interpret the music; rather, she simply relied on it to provide
the inspiration for expressing inner feelings through movement.
(130 words)
 













































































152
 










10. Select the sentence in the passage that implies the
argumentative function which the author mentions
Duncan‘s reliance on music in her recitals to serve. 







Exercise 27
 



The more that is discovered about the intricate
organization of the nervous system, the more it seems
remarkable that genes can successfully specify the
development of that system. Human genes contain too
little information even to specify which hemisphere of the
10

alone the hundreds of connections that each neuron
makes. For such reasons, we can assume that there must
be an important random factor in neural development, and
in particular, that errors must and do occur in the
development of all normal brains.
(93 words)
 



































































153
 



1. Which of the following best describes the organization
of the paragraph?
(A) A specific case is presented, its details are
analyzed, and a conclusion is drawn from it.
(B) A discovery is announced, its most significant
application is discussed, and possibilities for
the future are suggested.
(C) A generalization is made, specific situations in
which it is applicable are noted, and problems
with it are suggested.
(D) An observation is made, specifics are provided
to support it, and a generalization is derived.
(E) A hypothesis is presented, its implications are
clarified, and applications of it are discussed. 









Some recent historians have argued that life in the
British colonies in America from approximately 1763 to
1789 was marked by internal conflicts among colonists.
Inheritors of some of the viewpoints of early twentieth-
century Progressive historians such as Beard and Becker,
these recent historians have put forward arguments that
deserve evaluation.
The kind of conflict most emphasized by these
historians is class conflict. Yet with the Revolutionary
War dominating these years, how does one distinguish
class conflict within that larger conflict? Certainly not by
the side a person supported. Although many of these
historians have accepted the earlier assumption that
Loyalists represented an upper class, new evidence
indicates that Loyalists, like rebels, were drawn from all
socioeconomic classes. (It is nonetheless probably true
that a larger percentage of the well-to-do joined the
Loyalists than joined the rebels.) Looking at the rebel side,
we find little evidence for the contention that lower-class
rebels were in conflict with upper-class rebels. Indeed,
the war effort against Britain tended to suppress class
conflicts. Where it did not, the disputing rebels of one or
another class usually became Loyalists. Loyalism thus
operated as a safety valve to remove socioeconomic
discontent that existed among the rebels. Disputes
occurred, of course, among those who remained on the
rebel side, but the extraordinary social mobility of
eighteenth-century American society (with the obvious
exception of slaves) usually prevented such disputes from
hardening along class lines. Social structure was in fact so
fluid --- though recent statistics suggest a narrowing of
economic opportunity as the latter half of the century
progressed --- that to talk about social classes at all
requires the use of loose economic categories such as rich,
poor, and middle class, or eighteenth-century designations
like "the better sort." Despite these vague categories, one
should not claim unequivocally that hostility between
recognizable classes cannot be legitimately observed.
Outside of New York, however, there were very few
instances of openly expressed class antagonism.
 













































































154
 









Having said this, however, one must add that there is
much evidence to support the further claim of recent
historians that sectional conflicts were common between
1763 and 1789. The "Paxton Boys" incident and the
Regulator movement are representative examples of the
widespread, and justified, discontent of western settlers
against colonial or state governments dominated by
eastern interests. Although undertones of class conflict
existed beneath such hostility, the opposition was
primarily geographical. Sectional conflict ---which also
existed between North and South ---deserves further
investigation.
In summary, historians must be careful about the kind
of conflict they emphasize in eighteenth-century America.
Yet those who stress the achievement of a general
consensus among the colonists cannot fully understand
that consensus without understanding the conflicts that
had to be overcome or repressed in order to reach it.
(461 words) 









2.The author most likely refers to "historians such as
Beard and Becker" in the first paragraph in order to
(A) isolate the two historians whose work is most
representative of the viewpoints of Progressive
historians
(B) emphasize the need to find connections between
recent historical writing and the work of
earlier historians
(C) make a case for the importance of the views
of the Progressive historians concerning
eighteenth-century American life
(D) suggest that Progressive historians were the first
to discover the particular internal conflicts in
eighteenth-century American life mentioned
in the passage
(E) point out historians whose views of history
anticipated some of the views of the recent
historians mentioned in the passage


3.According to the passage, Loyalism during
the American Revolutionary War served the
function of
(A) eliminating the disputes that existed among
those colonists who supported the rebel cause
(B) drawing upper, as opposed to lower, socio-
economic classes away from the rebel cause
(C) tolerating the kinds of socioeconomic discontent
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. The passage suggests that the author would be likely
to agree with which of the following statements
about the social structure of eighteenth-century
American society?
A It allowed greater economic opportunity than it did
social mobility.
B It permitted greater economic opportunity prior to 1750
than after 1750.
C It did not contain rigidly defined socioeconomic
divisions.


5.The author suggests which of the following about
the representativeness of colonial or state govern-
ments in America from 1763 to 1789 ?
(A) The governments inadequately represented the
interests of people in western regions.
(B) The governments more often represented class
interests than sectional interests.
(C)The governments were less representative than
they had been before 1763 .
(D)The governments were dominated by the interests
of people of an upper socioeconomic class.
(E) The governments of the northern colonies were
less representative than were the governments
of the southern colonies.
 
that were not allowed to exist on the rebel side
(D) channeling conflict that existed within a socio-
economic class into the war effort against the
rebel cause
(E) absorbing members of socioeconomic groups
on the rebel side who felt themselves in
contention with members of other socio-
economic groups














155 










6. Despite a dramatic increase in the number of people
riding bicycles for recreation in Parkville. a recent
report by the Parkville Department of Transportation
shows that the number of accidents involving
bicycles has decreased for the third consecutive year.
 













































































156
 











Which of the following, if true during the last three years,
best reconciles the apparent discrepancy in the facts
above?

(A) The Parkville Department of Recreation
confiscated abandoned bicycles and sold them at
auction to any interested Parkville residents.
(B) Increased automobile and bus traffic in Parkville
has been the leading cause of the most recent
increase in automobile accidents.
(C) Because of the local increase in the number of
people bicycling for recreation. many out -of
-town bicyclists ride in the Parkville area.
(D) The Parkville Police Department enforced traffic
rules for bicycle riders much more vigorously
and began requiring recreational riders to pass a
bicycle safety course.
(E) The Parkville Department of Transportation
canceled a program that required all bicycles to
be inspected and registered each year. 










The Earth's magnetic field is generated as the molten
iron of the Earth's outer core revolves around its solid
inner core; when surges in the molten iron occur, magnetic
tempests are created. At the Earth's surface, these tempests
can be detected by changes in the strength of the Earth's
magnetic field. For reasons not fully understood, the field
itself reverses periodically every million years or so.
Clearly, geophysicists who seek to explain and forecast
changes in the field must understand what happens in the
outer core. Unlike meteorologists, however, they cannot
rely on observations made in their own lifetimes. Whereas
atmospheric storms arise in a matter of hours and last for
days, magnetic tempests develop over decades and persist for
centuries.
 










7.In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) analyzing a complicated scientific phenomenon
and its impact on the Earth's surface features
(B) describing a natural phenomenon and the
challenges its study presents to researchers
(C) discussing a scientific field of research and the
gaps in researchers' methodological
approaches to it
(D) comparing two distinct fields of physical science
and the different research methods employed
in each
(E) proposing an explanation for a geophysical
phenomenon and an experiment that could help
confirm that explanation
 
(121 words)
8. Select the sentence in the passage that implies the
reason why geophysicists seeking to explain magnetic
tempests ought to conduct research on the Earth's outer
core.





































157 









In The Women of Mexico City, 1796-1857, Sylvia
Marina Arrom argues that the status on women in Mexico
City improved during the nineteenth century. According
to Arrom, households headed by females and instances of
women working outside the home were much more
common than scholars have estimated; efforts by the
Mexican government to encourage female education
resulted in increased female literacy; and influential male
writers wrote pieces advocating education, employment,
and increased family responsibilities for women, while
deploring women‘s political and marital inequality.
Mention of the fact that the civil codes of 1870 and 1884
significantly advanced women‘s rights would have further
strengthened Arrom‘s argument.
Arrom does not discuss whether women‘s improved
status counteracted the effects on women of instability in
the Mexican economy during the nineteenth century.
However, this is not so much a weakness in her work as it
is the inevitable result of scholars‘ neglect of this period.
Indeed, such gaps in Mexican history are precisely what
make Arrom‘s pioneering study an important addition to
 









9. It can be inferred from the passage that Arrom
would agree with which of the following
assertions?
(A) Efforts by the Mexican government to
encourage education for women during the
nineteenth century were hampered by the
economic instability of that period.
(B) The most significant advances in the rights
of Mexican women during the nineteenth
century occurred prior to 1857.
(C) Improvements in the status of women in Mexico
City during the nineteenth century were
accompanied by similar improvements in the
status of women in other large Latin American
cities.
(D) Scholars have in the past accorded the most
significance to nineteenth-century Mexican
literature that supported the status quo in
women‘s political and marital rights.
(E) Scholars have in the past underestimated the
number of households headed by females in
 
Latin American women‘s history.
 
(172 words)
 




































158
 
Mexico City.


10. Which of the following best describes the author‘s
attitude toward Arrom‘s work?
(A) Uncritical approval
(B) Enthusiasm tempered by minor reservations
(C) Praise for her thesis, despite skepticism
regarding the sources of her evidence
(D) Reluctant acceptance, despite lingering doubts
regarding the accuracy of her thesis
(E) Rejection, despite admiration for her attempt to
break new ground in a hitherto neglected field 










Exercise 28
 




For women feminist literary critic, the subjectivity
versus objectivity, or critic-as-artist-or-scientist, debate has
special political significance, and her definition will court
special risks whichever side of the issue it favors. If she
defines feminist criticism as objective and scientific, the
definition precludes the critic-as-artist approach and may
impede accomplishment of the utilitarian political
objectives of those who seek to change the academic
establishment. If she defines feminist criticism as creative
and intuitive, privileged as art, then her work becomes
vulnerable to the prejudices of stereotypic ideas about the
ways in which women think, and will be dismissed by
much of the academic establishment.
These questions are political in the sense that the
debate over them will inevitably be less an exploration of
abstract matters in a spirit of disinterested inquiry than an
academic power struggle in which the careers and
professional fortunes of many women scholars -- only now
entering the academic profession in substantial numbers --
will be at stake, and with them the chances for a distinctive
contribution to humanistic understanding, a contribution
that might be an important influence against sexism in our
society.
(186 words)
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
1. The author specifically mentions all of the following
as difficulties that particularly affect women who
are theoreticians of feminist literary criticism
A tendency of a predominantly male academic
establishment to form preconceptions about women
B limitations that are imposed when criticism
is defined as objective and scientific
C likelihood that the work of a woman theoretician
who claims the privilege of art will be viewed
with prejudice by some academics
 
































































159
 




2.Which of the following is presented by the author
in support of the suggestion that there is stereo-
typic thinking among members of the academic
establishment?
(A) A distinctively feminist contribution to
humanistic understanding could work
against the influence of sexism among
members of the academic establishment.
(B) Women who define criticism as artistic may
be seen by the academic establishment as
being incapable of critical thinking.
(C) The debate over the role of the literary critic
is often seen as a political one.
(D) Women scholars are only now entering
academia in substantial numbers.
(E) The woman who is a critic is forced to
construct a theory of literary criticism.


3 .It can be inferred that the author would define as
" political" questions (in the second paragraph) that
(A) are contested largely through contentions over
power
(B) are primarily academic in nature and open to
abstract analysis
(C) are not in themselves important
(D) cannot be resolved without extensive debate
(E) will be debated by both men and women 










What causes a helix in nature to appear with either a
dextral("right-handed, "or clockwise) twist or a sinistral
("left-handed," or counterclockwise) twist is one of the
most intriguing puzzles in the science of form. Most
spiral-shaped snail species are predominantly dextral. But
at one time, handedness (twist direction of the shell) was
equally distributed within some snail species that have
become predominantly dextral or, in a few species,
predominantly sinistral. What mechanisms, control
handedness and keep left-handedness rare?
It would seem unlikely that evolution should
discriminate against sinistral snails if sinistral and dextral
snails are exact mirror images, for any disadvantage that a
sinistral twist in itself could confer on its possessor is
almost inconceivable. But left- and right-handed snails
are not actually true mirror images of one another. Their
shapes are noticeably different. Sinistral rarity might, then,
be a consequence of possible disadvantages conferred by
these other concomitant structural features. In addition,
perhaps left- and right-handed snails cannot mate with
each other, having incompatible twist directions.
Presumably an individual of the rarer form would have
relative difficulty in finding a mate of the same hand, thus
keeping the rare form rare or creating geographically
separated right- and left-handed populations.
But this evolutionary mechanism combining
dissymmetry, anatomy, and chance does not provide an
adequate explanation of why right-handedness should
have become predominant. It does not explain, for
example, why the infrequent unions between snails of
opposing hands produce fewer offspring of the rarer than
the commoner form in species where each parent
contributes equally to handedness. Nor does it explain
why, in a species where one parent determines
handedness,a brood is not exclusively right- or
left-handed when the offspring would have the same
 













































































160
 










genetic predisposition. In the European pond snail
Lymnaea peregra, a predominantly dextral species whose
handedness is maternally determined, a brood might be
expected to be exclusively right- or left-handed—and this
often occurs. However, some broods possess a few snails
of the opposing hand, and in predominantly sinistral
broods, the incidence of dextrality is surprisingly high.
Here, the evolutionary theory must defer to a theory
based on an explicit developmental mechanism that can
favor either right- or left-handedness. In the case of
Lymnaea peregra, studies indicate that a dextral gene is
expressed during egg formation; i.e., before egg
fertilization, the gene produces a protein, found in the
cytoplasm of the egg, that controls the pattern of cell
division and thus handedness. In experiments, an
injection of cytoplasm from dextral eggs changes the
pattern of sinistral eggs, but an injection from sinistral
eggs does not influence dextral eggs. One explanation for
the differing effects is that all Lymnaea peregra eggs
begin left-handed but most switch to being right-handed.
Thus, the path to a solution to the puzzle of handedness in
all snails appears to be as twisted as the helix itself.
(472 words) 









4. The second paragraph of the passage is primarily
concerned with offering possible reasons why
(A) it is unlikely that evolutionary mechanisms
could discriminate against sinistral snails
(B) sinistrality is relatively uncommon among snail
species
(C) dextral and sinistral populations of a snail
species tend to intermingle
(D) a theory based on a developmental mechanism
inadequately accounts for the predominance
of dextrality across snail species
(E) dextral snails breed more readily than sinistral
snails, even within predominantly sinistral
 









6. According to the passage, which of the following is
true of Lymnaea peregra?
(A) Handedness within the species was at one time
equally distributed between left and right.
(B) Under laboratory conditions, dextral eggs from
Lymnaea peregra can be artificially induced
to develop into sinistral snails.
(C) Broods of Lymnaea peregra are, without varia-
tion, exclusively sinistral or dextral.
(D) Handedness in Lymnaea peregra offspring is
determined by two parents together.
(E) fewer sinistral offspring in dextral broods than
dextral offspring in sinistral broods
 
populations
7. Which of the following accurately describes the
 
5. In describing the "evolutionary mechanism" (the first
sentence of the third paragraph), the author mentions
which of the following?
(A) The favorable conditions for nurturing new
offspring
(B) The variable environmental conditions that
affect survival of adult snails
(C) The availability of potential mates for breeding
(D) The structural identity of offspring to parents of
the same hand
(E) The frequency of unions between snails of
different species
 













































161
 
relationship between the evolutionary and
developmental theories discussed in the passage?
(A) Although the two theories reach the same
conclusion, each is based on different
assumptions.
(B) They present contradictory explanations of the
same phenomenon.
(C) The second theory accounts for certain
phenomena that the first cannot explain.
(D) The second theory demonstrates why the first is
valid only for very unusual, special cases.
(E) They are identical and interchangeable in that
the second theory merely restates the first in
less technical terms. 










Martin Luther King's role in the movement protesting
the war in Vietnam appears to require little explanation,
since he was the foremost advocate of nonviolence of his
time. But King's stance on the Vietnam War cannot be
explained in terms of pacifism alone. After all, he was
something of a latecomer to the antiwar movement, even
though by 1965 he was convinced that the role of the
United States in the war was indefensible. Why then the
two years that passed before he translated his private
misgivings into public dissent? Perhaps he believed that
he could not criticize American foreign policy without
endangering the support for civil rights that he had won
 










8.Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
indicates a reason for the delay of King‘s public protest
against the war.
 
from the federal government.
 
(116 words)
 
















































162 











An economist concluded that Kregg Company
deliberately discriminated against people with a
history of union affiliation in hiring workers for its
new plant. The economist's evidence is that, of the
1,500 people hired to work at the new plant, only 100
had ever belonged to a labor union, whereas in Kregg
Company's older plants, a much higher proportion of
workers have a history of union affiliation.
 













































































163
 











9. Which of the following is an assumption on which
the economist's argument depends?

(A) None of the people with a history of union
affiliation who were hired to work at the new
plant were union organizers.
(B) Applicants for jobs at the new plant were not
asked by Kregg's recruiters whether they had
ever belonged to a labor union.
(C) In the plants of some of Kregg's competitors, the
workforce consists predominantly of union
members.
(D) The company believes that the cost of running
the new plant will be lower if labor unions are
not represented in the workforce.
(E) The pool of potential candidates for jobs at the
new plant included some people, in addition to
those Kregg hired, with a history of union
affiliation. 









Quantum mechanics is a highly successful theory: it
supplies methods for accurately calculating the results of
diverse experiments, especially with minute particles. The
predictions of quantum mechanics, however, give only the
probability of an event, not a deterministic statement of
whether or not the event will occur. Because of this
probabilism, Einstein remained strongly dissatisfied with
the theory throughout his life, though he did not maintain
that quantum mechanics is wrong. Rather, he held that it is
incomplete: in quantum mechanics the motion of a particle
must be described in terms of probabilities, he argued, only
because some parameters that determine the motion have
not been specified. Einstein's ideas have been tested by
experiments performed since his death, and as most of
these experiments support traditional quantum mechanics,
Einstein's approach is almost certainly erroneous.
(134 words)
 













































































164
 









10. It can be inferred from the passage that the author's
conclusion that Einstein's approach is "erroneous"
might have to be modified because
(A) it is theoretically possible to generate plausible
theories with hidden parameters within them
(B) some experimental tests of Einstein's theory do
not disconfirm the hidden-parameter theory
of quantum mechanics
(C) it is possible for a theory to have hidden
parameters and yet be probabilistic
(D) traditional quantum mechanics has not yet been
used to analyze all of the phenomena to
which it could be applied
(E) there are too many possible hidden parameters
to develop meaningful tests of hidden-
parameter theories 







Exercise 29
 



Analyzing the physics of dance can add fundamentally
to a dancer's skill. Although dancers seldom see themselves
totally in physical terms -- as body mass moving through
space under the influence of well-known forces and
obeying physical laws -- neither can they afford to ignore
the physics of movement. Some movements involving
primarily vertical or horizontal motions of the body as a
whole, in which rotations can be ignored, can be studied
using simple equations of linear motion in three dimensions.
However, rotational motions require more complex
approaches that involve analyses of the way the body's
mass is distributed, the axes of rotation involved in
different types of movement, and the sources of the forces
 



1.The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) initiate a debate over two approaches to
analyzing a field of study
(B) describe how one field of knowledge can be
applied to another field
(C) point out the contradictions between two distinct
theories
(D) Define and elaborate on an accepted scientific
principle
(E) discuss the application of a new theory within
a new setting


For the following question, consider each of the
 
that produce the rotational movement.
 
(120 words)
 












































165
 
choices separately and select all that apply
2.The author mentions all of the following as contributing
to an understanding of the physics of dance
A analyses of the way in which the body's mass
is distributed
B equations of linear motion in three dimensions
C analyses of the sources that produce rotational
motions 













3. Hastings‘ contracture is a disorder of the connective
tissue in one or both hands, most commonly causing
loss of mobility. A survey of thousands of
medical-insurance claims found that over 30 percent
of people who had one hand operated on for Hastings'
contracture underwent surgery a second time for this
disorder within three years. Clearly, therefore, a
single surgical treatment of Hastings' contracture is
often ineffective at providing long-term correction of
the disorder.
 













































































166
 












Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens
the argument?

(A) The medical-insurance claims did not specie
whether the surgery was on the patient's right or
left hand.
(B) The surgical techniques used to treat Hastings'
contracture are identical to those used
successfully to treat certain work-related injuries
to the hand.
(C) A separate survey found that 90 percent of
patients operated on for Hastings' contracture
report increased hand mobility within one month
after the surgery.
(D) All of the patients in the survey were required by
their insurance companies to seek a second
opinion from a qualified surgeon before
undergoing the operation.
(E) Many people who have Hastings' contracture
choose to tolerate its effects rather than undergo
the risks of surgery. 









The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution, ratified in 1868, prohibits state governments
from denying citizens the "equal protection of the laws."
Although precisely what the framers of the amendment
meant by this equal protection clause remains unclear, all
interpreters agree that the framers' immediate objective was
to provide a constitutional warrant for the Civil Rights Act
of 1866, which guaranteed the citizenship of all persons
born in the United States and subject to United States
jurisdiction. This declaration, which was echoed in the text
of the Fourteenth Amendment, was designed primarily to
counter the Supreme Court's ruling in Dred Scott v. Sandford
that Black people in the United States could be denied
citizenship. The act was vetoed by President Andrew Johnson,
who argued that the Thirteenth Amendment, which abolished
slavery, did not provide Congress with the authority to extend
citizenship and equal protection to the freed slaves.
Although Congress promptly overrode Johnson's veto,
supporters of the act sought to ensure its constitutional
foundations with the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(172 words)
 













































































167
 









4.The author implies that the Fourteenth Amendment
might not have been enacted if
(A) Congress' authority with regard to legislating
civil rights had not been challenged
(B) the framers had anticipated the Supreme Court's
ruling in Brown v. Board of Education
(C) the framers had believed that it would be used in
deciding cases of discrimination involving
non-racial groups
(D) most state governments had been willing to
protect citizens' civil rights
(E) its essential elements had not been implicit in the
Thirteenth Amendment


5.According to the passage, which of the following
most accurately indicates the sequence of the events
listed below ?
I. Civil Rights Act of 1866
II. Dred Scott v. Sandford
III. Fourteenth Amendment
IV. Veto by President Johnson


(A) I, II, III, IV
(B) I, IV, II, III
(C) I, IV, III, II
(D) II, I, IV, III
(E) III, II, I, IV


6. In the context in which it appears, "overrode" most
nearly means
A trampled
B extended
C annulled
D neutralized
E compromised 









Many organisms are capable of altering their habitat
significantly, sometimes limiting their own growth. The
influence of the biological component of an ecosystem is
often greater in fresh waters that in marine or terrestrial
systems, because of the small size of many freshwater
bodies. Many of the important effects of organisms are
related to their physiology, especially growth and
respiration. By their growth many species can deplete
essential nutrients within the system, thus limiting their
own growth or that of other species. Lund has demonstrated
that in Lake Windermere the alga Asterionella is unable to
grow in conditions that it itself has created. Once a year, in
the spring, this plant starts to grow rapidly in the lake,
using up so much silica from the water that by late spring
there is no longer enough to maintain its own growth. The
population decreases dramatically as a result. (147 words)
 













































































168
 









7.It can be inferred from the passage that which of the
followings is true about Asterionella plants in Lake
Windermere?
(A) They are not present except in early spring.
(B) They contribute silica to the waters as they grow.
(C) They are food for other organisms.
(D) They form a silica-rich layer on the lake
bottom.
(E) Their growth peaks in the spring.


8. Select the sentence in the passage that indicates certain
causes of the alteration of organisms to their habitat. 










Design courses should be an essential element in
engineering curricula. Because perceptive processes are not
assumed to entail "hard thinking," nonverbal thought is
sometimes seen as a primitive stage in the development of
cognitive processes and inferior to verbal or mathematical
thought. But it is paradoxical that when the staff of the
Historic American Engineering Record wished to have
drawings made of machines and isometric views of
industrial processes for its historical record of American
engineering, the only college students with the requisite
abilities were not engineering students, but rather students
attending architectural schools.
If courses in design, which in a strongly analytical
engineering curriculum provide the background required
for practical problem-solving, are not provided, we can
expect to encounter silly but costly errors occurring in
advanced engineering systems. For example, early models
of high-speed railroad cars loaded with sophisticated
controls were unable to operate in a snowstorm because a
 










9.The author calls the predicament faced by the
Historic American Engineering Record "para-
doxical" most probably because
(A) the publication needed drawings that its own
staff could not make
(B) architectural schools offered but did not require
engineering design courses for their students
(C) college students were qualified to make the
drawings while practicing engineers were not
(D) the drawings needed were so complicated that
even students in architectural schools had
difficulty making them.
(E) engineering students were not trained to make
the type of drawings needed to record the
development of their own discipline


10.The author uses the example of the early models of
high-speed railroad cars primarily to
(A) weaken the argument that modern engineering
 
fan sucked snow into the electrical system.
 
(157 words)
 





































169
 
systems have major defects because of an
absence of design courses in engineering
curricula
(B) support the thesis that the number of errors in
modern engineering systems is likely to
increase
(C) illustrate the idea that courses in design are the
most effective means for reducing the cost of
designing engineering systems
(D) support the contention that a lack of attention to
the nonscientific aspects of design results in
poor conceptualization by engineers
(E) weaken the proposition that mathematics is a
necessary part of the study of design 










Exercise 30
 




Sex-defined protective laws have often been based on
stereotypical assumptions concerning women's needs and
abilities, and employers have frequently used them as legal
excuses for discriminating against women. After the Second
World War, for example, businesses and government sought
to persuade women to vacate jobs in factories, thus making
room in the labor force for returning veterans. The revival
or passage of state laws limiting the daily or weekly work
hours of women conveniently accomplished this. Employers
had only to declare that overtime hours were a necessary
condition of employment or promotion in their factory, and
women could be quite legally fired, refused jobs, or kept at
low wage levels, all in the name of "protecting" their health.
At the same time, even the most well- intentioned
lawmakers, courts, and employers have often been blind to
the real needs of women. The lawmakers and the courts
continue to permit employers to offer employee health
insurance plans that cover all known human medical
disabilities except those relating to pregnancy and childbirth.
(170 words)
 
































































170
 




1. According to the author, which of the following
resulted from the passage or revival of state laws
limiting the work hours of women workers?
(A) Women workers were compelled to leave their jobs in
factories.
(B) Many employers had difficulty in providing jobs for
returning veterans.
(C) Many employers found it hard to attract women
workers.
(D) The health of most women factory workers improved.
(E) Employment practices that addressed the real needs of
women workers became common.


2. The author places the word "protecting" in quotation
marks most likely in order to suggest that
(A) she is quoting the actual wording of the laws in
question
(B) the protective nature of the laws in question
should not be overlooked
(C) protecting the health of workers is important to
those who support protective labor laws
(D) the laws in question were really used to the
detriment of women workers, despite being
overtly protective in intent
(E) the health of workers is not in need of protection,
even in jobs where many hours of overtime work
are required 










3.A society can achieve a fair distribution of resources
only under conditions of economic growth. There can
be no economic growth unless the society guarantees
equality of economic opportunity to all of its citizens.
Equality of economic opportunity cannot be
guaranteed unless a society's government actively
works to bring it about.
 













































































171
 









If the statements given are true, it can be properly
concluded from them that

(A) no government can achieve a fair distribution of
resources under conditions of economic growth
(B) all societies that guarantee equality of economic
opportunity to all of their members are societies
that distribute resources fairly
(C) a society can achieve a fair distribution of
resources only if its government actively works
to bring about equality of economic opportunity
(D) there can be no economic growth in a society
unless that society guarantees a fair distribution
of resources
(E) some societies that experience economic growth
fail to guarantee equality of opportunity to all of
their citizens 









The sweep of narrative in A. N. Wilson's biography of C. S.
Lewis is impressive and there is much that is acute and well
argued. But much in this work is careless and unworthy of its
author. Wilson, a novelist and an accomplished biographer,
has failed to do what any writer on such a subject as Lewis
ought to do, namely work out a coherent view of how the
various literary works by the subject are to be described and
commented on. Decisions have to be made on what to look at
in detail and what to pass by with just a mention. Wilson has
not thought this problem out. For instance, Till We Have
Faces, Lewis' treatment of the Eros and Psyche story and one
of his best-executed and most moving works, is merely
mentioned by Wilson, though it illuminates Lewis' spiritual
development, whereas Lewis' minor work Pilgrim's Regress is
 









5.The author of the passage would be most likely to
agree with which of the following statements regarding
Till We Have Faces?
(A) It is an improvement over the Eros and Psyche
story on which it is based.
(B) It illustrated Lewis' attempt to involve his readers
emotionally in the story of Eros and Psyche.
(C) It was more highly regarded by Wilson than by
Lewis himself.
(D) It is one of the outstanding literary achievements
of Lewis' career.
(E) It is probably one of the most popular of Lewis'
works.
 
looked at in considerable detail.
 
(156 words)
 
6.Which of the following best describes the organization
of the passage?
 
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4.The author of the passage implies that Wilson's
examination of Pilgrim's Regress
A was disproportionately long relative to the amount of
effort Lewis devoted to writing Pilgrim's Regress
B was more extensive than warranted because of the
relative unimportance of Pilgrim's Regress
C is not as coherent as his treatment of Till We Have
Faces
 











































172
 
(A) An evaluation is made, and aspects of the evaluation
are expanded on with supporting evidence.
(B) A theory is proposed, and supporting examples are
provided.
(C) A position is examined, analyzed, and rejected.
(D) A contradiction is described, then the points of
contention are evaluated and reconciled.
(E) Opposing views are presented and evaluated, then
modifications are advocated. 









The two claws of the mature American lobster are
decidedly different from each other. The crusher claw is
short and stout; the cutter claw is long and slender. This
bilateral asymmetry begins to appear in the juvenile sixth
stage of development. One possible explanation is that
differential use of the claws determines their asymmetry;
the claw that is used more becomes the crusher.
To test this hypothesis, researchers raised lobsters in the
juvenile fourth and fifth stages of development in a
laboratory environment in which the lobsters could
manipulate oyster chips. Under these conditions, the
lobsters developed asymmetric claws, half with crusher
claws on the left, and half with crusher claws on the right.
In contrast, when juvenile lobsters were reared in a smooth
tank without the oyster chips, the majority developed two
cutter claws. This unusual configuration of symmetrical
cutter claws did not change when the lobsters were
subsequently placed in a manipulatable environment or
when they lost and regenerated one or both claws.
(165 words)


7.The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) drawing an analogy between asymmetry in
lobsters and handedness in humans
(B) developing a method for predicting whether
crusher claws in lobsters will appear on the
left or right side
(C) explaining differences between lobsters'
crusher claws and cutter claws
(D) discussing a possible explanation for the way
bilateral asymmetry is determined in lobsters
(E) summarizing the stages of development of the
lobster
 













































































173
 









8.It can be inferred that of the two laboratory
environments mentioned in the passage, the one with
oyster chips was designed to
(A) prove that the presence of oyster chips was not
necessary for the development of a crusher
claw.
(B) prove that the relative length of time that the
lobsters were exposed to the oyster-chip
environment had little impact on the development
of a crusher claw
(C) eliminate the environment as a possible influence
in the development of a crusher claw
(D) control on which side the crusher claw develops
(E) simulate the conditions that lobsters encounter
in their natural environment


9.Which of the following conditions does the
passage suggest is a possible cause for the failure
of a lobster to develop a crusher claw?
(A) The loss of a claw during the third or earlier
stage of development
(B) The loss of a claw during the fourth or fifth
stage of development
(C) The loss of a claw during the sixth stage of
development
(D) Development in an environment devoid of material
that can be manipulated
(E) Development in an environment that changes
frequently throughout the stages of development 









(A) the physicists, using a different method for
 
10. Which of the following, if true, most logically
completes the passage?

Every fusion reaction releases neutrinos. To test a
hypothesis about the frequency of fusion reactions in the
Sun, physicists calculated the number of neutrinos the
Sun would produce annually if the hypothesis were
correct. From this they estimated how many neutrinos
should pass through a particular location on Earth. The
fact that far fewer neutrinos were counted than were
predicted to pass through the location would seem to
prove that the hypothesis is wrong, except that------.
 



































































174
 
estimating how many neutrinos should reach the
location, confirmed their original estimate
(B) there are several competing hypotheses about the
frequency of solar fusion reactions
(C) there is not enough energy in the Sun to destroy a
neutrino once it is released
(D) the method used to count neutrinos detects no
more than approximately ten percent of the
neutrinos that pass through
(E) neutrinos released in the fusion reactions of other
stars also reach the Earth 










Exercise 31
 





1.
 





High Towers, a company that occupies several office
buildings, is considering installing new energy-
efficient lightbulbs in its buildings. The new bulbs
require less than half the electricity consumed by the
conventional bulbs currently used to produce the
same amount of light. The new bulbs also last
considerably longer. It follows that by replacing old
bulbs as they bum out with the new kind of bulb,
High Towers would significantly reduce its overall
lighting costs.
 
































































175
 




Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the
argument given?

(A) If the new bulbs are widely adopted, as seems
likely, they will be produced in large enough
quantities to be offered at prices comparable to
those of conventional bulbs.
(B) The utility that supplies High Towers with
electricity offers discount rates to its largest
customers.
(C) High Towers has recently signed a contract to
occupy an additional small office building.
(D) High Towers has begun a campaign to encourage
its employees to turn off lights whenever they
leave a room.
(E) The company that manufactures the new bulbs
has been granted a patent on the innovative
technology used in the bulbs and thus has
exclusive rights to manufacture them. 









The defoliation of millions of acres of trees by massive
infestations of gypsy moth caterpillars is a recurring
phenomenon in the northeastern United States. In studying
these outbreaks, scientists have discovered that affected
trees fight back by releasing toxic chemicals, mainly
phenols, into their foliage. These noxious substances limit
caterpillars' growth and reduce the number of eggs that
female moths lay. Phenols also make the eggs smaller,
which reduces the growth of the following year's
caterpillars. Because the number of eggs a female moth
produces is directly related to her size, and because her
size is determined entirely by her feeding success as a
caterpillar, the trees' defensive mechanism has an impact
on moth fecundity.
The gypsy moth is also subject to attack by the
nucleopolyhedrosis virus, or wilt disease, a particularly
important killer of the caterpillars in outbreak years.
Caterpillars contract wilt disease when they eat a leaf to
which the virus, encased in a protein globule, has become
attached. Once ingested by a caterpillar, the protein
globule dissolves, releasing thousands of viruses, or
virions, that after about two weeks multiply enough to fill
the entire body cavity. When the caterpillar dies, the
virions are released to the outside, encased in a new
protein globule synthesized from the caterpillar's tissues
and ready to be picked up by other caterpillars.
Knowing that phenols, including tannins, often act by
associating with and altering the activity of proteins,
researchers focused on the effects on caterpillars of
ingesting the virus and leaves together. They found that
on tannin-rich oak leaves, the virus is considerably less
effective at killing caterpillars than when it is on aspen
leaves, which are lower in phenols. In general, the more
concentrated the phenols in tree leaves, the less deadly the
virus. Thus, while highly concentrated phenols in tree
leaves reduce the caterpillar population by limiting the size
of caterpillars and, consequently, the size of the female's
egg cluster, these same chemicals also help caterpillars
survive by disabling the wilt virus. Forest stands of red
oaks, with their tannin-rich foliage, may even provide
caterpillars with safe havens from disease. In stands
dominated by trees such as aspen, however, incipient gypsy
moth outbreaks are quickly suppressed by viral epidemics.
 













































































176
 









Further research has shown that caterpillars become
virtually immune to the wilt virus as the trees on which
they feed respond to increasing defoliation. The trees' own
defenses raise the threshold of caterpillar vulnerability to
the disease, allowing populations to grow denser without
becoming more susceptible to infection. For these reasons,
the benefits to the caterpillars of ingesting phenols appear
to outweigh the costs. Given the presence of the virus, the
trees' defensive tactic apparently has backfired.
(446 words) 









2. It can be inferred from the passage that wilt disease
virions depend for their survival on
(A) protein synthesized from the tissues of a host
caterpillar
(B) aspen leaves with high concentrations of phenols
(C) tannin-rich oak leaves
(D) nutrients that they synthesize from gypsy moth
egg clusters
(E) a rising threshold of caterpillar vulnerability to
wilt disease


3.Which of the following best describes the function of
the third paragraph of the passage?
(A) It resolves a contradiction between the ideas
presented in the first and second paragraphs.
(B) It introduces research data to support the theory
outlined in the second paragraph.
(C) It draws a conclusion from conflicting evidence
presented in the first two paragraphs.
(D) It shows how phenomena described in the first
and second paragraphs act in combination.
(E) It elaborates on the thesis introduced in the first
paragraph after a digression in the second
paragraph.
 













































































177
 









4. Select the sentence in the passage that the author uses
as a supporting idea to explicate how gypsy moth
caterpillars become immune to the wilt virus.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
5.Which of the following statements about gypsy moth
caterpillars is supported by information presented in
the passage EXCEPT?
A Differing concentrations of phenols in leaves have
differing effects on the ability of the wilt virus to
kill gypsy moth caterpillars.
B Female gypsy moth caterpillars stop growing after
they ingest leaves containing phenols.
C The longer a gypsy moth population is exposed to
wilt disease, the greater the likelihood that the
gypsy moth caterpillars will become immune to
the virus. 










Although a historical lack of access to formal Spanish-
language education initially limited the opportunities of
some Chicanos to hone their skills as writers of Spanish,
their bilingual culture clearly fostered an exuberant and
compelling oral tradition. It has thus generally been by way
of the emphasis on oral literary creativity that these
Chicano writers, whose English-language works are
sometimes uninspired, developed the powerful and
arresting language that characterized their Spanish-
language works. This Spanish-English difference is not
surprising. When writing in Spanish, these authors stayed
close to the spoken traditions of their communities. Works
in English, however, often required the elimination of
nuance or colloquialism, the adoption of a formal tone, and
the adjustment of themes or ideas to satisfy the different
 










6.According to the author, the Chicano oral experience
contributed directly to which of the following
characteristics in the work of some Chicano writers?
(A) A sensitivity to and adeptness in using the
spoken language
(B) A tendency to appear in national rather than
regional publications
(C) A style reflecting the influence of Spanish
language education
(D) A reliance on a rather formal style
(E) A capacity to appeal to a broad range of audiences


7. Which of the following best characterizes the function
of the indicated portion (the last two sentences) of the
passage ?
 
demands of national publications.
 
(127 words)
 











































178
 
(A) They expand on an advantage mentioned in the
first sentence of the passage.
(B) They outline the consequences of a limitation
discussed in the first sentence of the passage.
(C) They provide explicit examples drawn from
the oral and the written works mentioned in the
second sentence of the passage.
(D) They explain the causes of a phenomenon
mentioned in the third sentence of the passage.
(E) They limit the applicability of a generalization
made in the third sentence of the passage. 










In medical tomography x-rays map the human body's
density variations (and hence internal organs); the
information from the x-rays, transmitted through the body
along many different paths, is recombined to form three-
dimensional images of the body's interior. It is primarily
this multiplicative increase in data obtained from the
multipath transmission of signals that accounts for
oceanographers' attraction to tomography.
Researchers reasoned that low-frequency sound waves,
because they are so well described mathematically and
because even small perturbations in emitted sound waves
can be detected, could be transmitted through the ocean
over many different paths and that the properties of the
ocean's interior could be deduced on the basis of how the
ocean altered the signals. Their initial trials were highly
successful, and ocean acoustic tomography was born.
(128 words)
 













































































179
 










8.Which of the following, if presented as the first
sentence of a succeeding paragraph, would most
logically continue the discussion presented in the
passage?
(A) Timekeeping in medical tomography must be
precise because the changes in travel time caused
by density fluctuations are slight.
(B) To understand how ocean acoustic tomography
works, it is necessary to know how sound
travels in the ocean.
(C) Ships are another possibility. but they would
need to stop every 50 kilometers to lower
measuring instruments.
(D) These variations amount to only about 2 to 3
percent of the average speed of sound in water,
which is about 1,500 meters per second.
(E) The device used in medical tomography emits a
specially coded signal, easily distinguishable
from background noise 









Ironically, now that photography is securely
established as a fine art, many photographers find it
pretentious or irrelevant to label it as such. Serious
photographers variously claim to be finding, recording,
impartially observing, witnessing events, exploring
themselves—anything but making works of art. In the
nineteenth century, photography's association with the
real world placed it in an ambivalent relation to art; late in
the twentieth century, an ambivalent relation exists
because of the Modernist heritage in art. That important
photographers are no longer willing to debate whether
photography is or is not a fine art, except to proclaim that
their own work is not involved with art, shows the extent
to which they simply take for granted the concept of art
imposed by the triumph of Modernism: the better the art,
the more subversive it is of the traditional aims of art.
(142 words)
 













































































180
 









9.Which of the following adjectives best describes
―the concept of art imposed by the triumph of
Modernism‖ as the author represents it in the last sentence?
(A) Objective
(B) Mechanical
(C) Superficial
(D) Dramatic
(E) Paradoxical


10. In the context in which it appears, "ambivalent " most
nearly means


A subversive
B unambiguous
C equivocal
D disreputable
E contradictory 







Exercise 32
 



The recent change to all-volunteer armed forces in the
United States will eventually produce a gradual increase in
the proportion of women in the armed forces and in the
variety of women‘s assignments, but probably not the
dramatic gains for women that might have been expected.
This is so even though the armed forces operate in an ethos
of institutional change oriented toward occupational
equality and under the federal sanction of equal pay for
equal work. The difficulty is that women are unlikely to be
trained for any direct combat operations; a significant
portion of the larger society remains uncomfortable as yet
with extending equality in this direction. Therefore, for
women in the military, the search for equality will still be
based on functional equivalence, not identity or even
 



For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
1. The passage implies that which of the following is a
factor conducive to a more equitable representation
of women in the United States armed forces than
has existed in the past?


A The all-volunteer character of the present
armed forces
B The past service records of women who had
assignments functionally equivalent to men‘s
assignments
C Restrictive past policies governing the military
assignments open to women
 
similarity of task.
 
(132 words)
 










































181 









About a century ago, the Swedish physical scientist
Arrhenius proposed a law of classical chemistry that relates
chemical reaction rate to temperature. According to the
Arrhenius equation, chemical reaction are increasingly
unlikely to occur as temperatures approach absolute zero,
and at absolute zero (zero degrees Kelvin, or minus 273
degrees Celsius) reactions stop. However, recent
experimental evidence reveals that although the Arrhenius
equation is generally accurate in describing the kind of
chemical reaction that occurs at relatively high
temperatures, at temperatures closer to zero a quantum-
 









molecules, such as interstellar formaldehyde, in dark clouds
of interstellar dust. Afterward complex organic molecules
would be formed, slowly but surely, by means of tunneling.
After I offered my hypothesis, Hoyle and Wickramasinghe
argued that molecules of interstellar formaldehyde have
indeed evolved into stable polysaccharides such as
cellulose and starch. Their conclusions, although strongly
disputed, have generated excitement among investigators
such as myself who are proposing that the galactic clouds
are the places where the prebiological evolution of
compounds necessary to life occurred.
 
mechanical effect known as tunneling comes into play; this
effect accounts for chemical reactions that are forbidden by
the principles of classical chemistry. Specifically, entire
molecules can "tunnel" through the barriers of repulsive
forces from other molecules and chemically react even
though these molecules do not have sufficient energy,
according to classical chemistry, to overcome the repulsive
barrier.
The rate of any chemical reaction, regardless of the
temperature at which it takes place, usually depends on a
very important characteristic known as its activation energy.
Any molecule can be imagined to reside at the bottom of a
so-called potential well of energy. A chemical reaction
corresponds to the transition of a molecule from the bottom
of one potential well to the bottom of another. In classical
chemistry, such a transition can be accomplished only by
going over the potential barrier between the wells, the
height of which remains constant and is called the
activation energy of the reaction. In tunneling, the reacting
molecules tunnel from the bottom of one to the bottom of
another well without having to rise over the barrier between
the two wells. Recently researchers have developed the
concept of tunneling temperature: the temperature below
which tunneling transitions greatly outnumber Arrhenius
transitions, and classical mechanics gives way to its
quantum counterpart.
This tunneling phenomenon at very low temperatures
suggested my hypothesis about a cold prehistory of life: the
formation of rather complex organic molecules in the deep
cold of outer space, where temperatures usually reach only
a few degrees Kelvin. Cosmic rays (high-energy protons
and other particles) might trigger the synthesis of simple

182 









2.According to the passage, classical chemical reactions and
tunneling reactions are alike in which of the following
ways?
(A) In both types of reactions, reacting molecules have to rise
over the barrier between the two wells.
(B) In both types of reactions, a transition is made from
the bottom of one potential well to the bottom of
another.
(C) In neither type of reaction does the height of the
barrier between the wells remain constant.
(D) In neither type of reaction does the rate of a chemical
reaction depend on its activation energy.
(E) In both types of reactions, reacting molecules are able
to go through the barrier between the two wells.
 









4.Which of the following best describes the hypothesis
of Hoyle and Wickramasinghe as it is presented in the
passage?
(A) Cosmic rays can directly synthesize complex
organic molecules.
(B) The galactic clouds are the places where prebio-
logical evolution of compounds necessary to life
occurred.
(C) Interstellar formaldehyde can be synthesized by
tunneling.
(D) Molecules of interstellar formaldehyde can evolve
into complex organic molecules.
(E) Complex organic molecules can be synthesized
from stable polysaccharides such as cellulose and
 
starch.
3.The author's hypothesis concerning the cold prehistory
 
of life would be most weakened if which of the following
were true?
(A)Cosmic rays are unlikely to trigger the formation of
simple molecules.
(B)Tunneling occurs only in a narrow band of
temperatures around zero degrees Kelvin.
(C)The synthesis of interstellar formaldehyde can be
activated by means other than cosmic rays.
(D)Simple molecules can be synthesized by means of
tunneling.
(E)Classical chemical reactions do not occur at
temperatures close to absolute zero.
 











































183
 
5.Which of the following best describes the organization
of the first two paragraphs of the passage?
(A) The author cites a basic principle of classical
chemistry and then describes the research from
which that principle was developed.
(B) The author cites an apparent contradiction to
the principles of classical chemistry and then
explains the process of a chemical reaction to
show there is in fact no contradiction.
(C) the author describes the role of heat in chemical
reactions and then offers a detailed explanation
of its function.
(D) The author presents a law of classical chemistry in
order to introduce a kind of chemical reaction
that differs from it and then explains the essential
difference between the two.
(E) The author presents the fundamental rules of classical
chemistry in order to introduce an explanation of a
specific chemical reaction. 









One explanation for the tendency of animals to be more
vigilant in smaller groups than in larger ones assumes that the
vigilant behavior—looking up, for example—is aimed at
predators. If individuals on the edge of a group are more vigilant
because they are at greater risk of being captured, then
individuals on average would have to be more vigilant in
smaller groups, because the animals on the periphery of a group
form a greater proportion of the whole group as the size of the
group diminishes.
However, a different explanation is necessary in cases where
the vigilant behavior is not directed at predators. J. Krebs has
discovered that great blue herons look up more often when in
smaller flocks than when in larger ones, solely as a consequence
of poor feeding conditions. Krebs hypothesizes that the herons
in smaller flocks are watching for herons that they might follow
to better feeding pools, which usually attract larger numbers of
 









6. It can be inferred from the passage that in species in
which vigilant behavior is directed at predators, the
tendency of the animals to be more vigilant in
smaller groups than in larger ones would most likely
be minimized if which of the following were true?
(A) The vigilance of animals on the periphery of a group
always exceeded that of animals located in its interior,
even when predators were not in the area.
(B) The risk of capture for individuals in a group was the
same, whether they were located in the interior of the
group or on its periphery.
(C) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to be less
capable of defending themselves from attack by predators
than animals located in the interior of the group.
(D) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to bear
marks that were more distinctive to predators than
 
the birds.
 
(162 words)
 











































184
 
animals located in the interior of the group.
(E) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to have
shorter life spans than animals located in the interior of the
group.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
7.The passage provides information in support of
which of the following assertions EXCEPT?
A Similar behavior in different species of animals
does not necessarily serve the same purpose.
B Vigilant behavior aimed at predators is seldom
more beneficial to groups of animals than to
individual animals.
C The avoidance of predators is more important to
an animal's survival than is the quest for food. 











8. The painter Peter Brandon never dated his works, and
their chronology is only now beginning to take shape
in the critical literature. A recent dating of a Brandon
self-portrait to 1930 is surely wrong. Brandon was 63
years old in 1930, yet the painting shows a young,
dark-haired man-obviously Brandon, but clearly not a
man of 63.
 













































































185
 











Which of the following, if justifiably assumed, allows
the conclusion to be properly drawn?

(A) There is no securely dated self-portrait of Brandon
that he painted when he was significantly younger
than 63.
(B) In refraining from dating his works, Brandon
intended to steer critical discussion of them away
from considerations of chronology.
(C) Until recently, there was very little critical
literature on the works of Brandon.
(D) Brandon at age 63 would not have portrayed
himself in a painting as he had looked when he
was a young man.
(E) Brandon painted several self-portraits that showed
him as a man past the age of 60. 









This is not to deny that the Black gospel music of the
early twentieth century differed in important ways from the
slave spirituals. Whereas spirituals were created and
disseminated in folk fashion    , gospel music was composed,
published, copyrighted, and sold by professionals.
Nevertheless, improvisation remained central to gospel music.
One has only to listen to the recorded repertoire of gospel
songs to realize that Black gospel singers rarely sang a song
precisely the same way twice and never according to its exact
musical notation. They performed what jazz musicians call
"head arrangements" proceeding from their own feelings and
from the way "the spirit" moved them at the time. This
improvisatory element was reflected in the manner in which
 









9.The author mentions "folk fashion" most likely in order to
(A) counter an assertion about the role of improvi-
sation in music created by Black people
(B) compare early gospel music with gospel music
written later in the twentieth century
(C) make a distinction between gospel music and
slave spirituals
(D) introduce a discussion about the dissemination of
slave spirituals
(E) describe a similarity between gospel music and
slave spirituals


10.Of the following sentences, which is most likely to
 
gospel music was published.
 
(122 words)
 
















































186
 
have immediately preceded the passage?
(A) Few composers of gospel music drew on traditions
such as the spiritual in creating their songs.
(B) Spirituals and Black gospel music were derived
from the same musical tradition.
(C) The creation and singing of spirituals, practiced by
Black Americans before the Civil War, continued
after the war.
(D) Spirituals and gospel music can be clearly
distinguished from one another.
(E) Improvisation was one of the primary characteristics
of the gospel music created by Black musicians. 










Exercise 33
 




Writing of the Iroquois nation, Smith has argued that
through the chiefs' council, tribal chiefs traditionally
maintained complete control over the political affairs of
both the Iroquois tribal league and the individual tribes
belonging to the league, whereas the sole jurisdiction over
religious affairs resided with the shamans. He contended
that this division was maintained until the late nineteenth
century. However, Smith fails to recognize that this division
of power between the tribal chiefs and shamans was not
actually rooted in Iroquois tradition; rather, it resulted from
the Iroquois' resettlement on reservations early in the
nineteenth century. Prior to resettlement, the chiefs' council
controlled only the broad policy of the tribal league;
individual tribes had institutions― most important, the
longhouse― to govern their own affairs. In the longhouse,
the tribe's chief influenced both political and religious
affairs.
(137 words)
 
































































187
 




1. It can be inferred that the author of the passage
regards Smith's argument as
(A) provocative and potentially useful, but flawed
by poor organization
(B) eloquently presented, but needlessly inflammatory
(C) accurate in some of its particulars, but inaccurate
with regard to an important point.
(D) historically sound, but overly detailed and
redundant
(E) persuasive in its time, but now largely outdated


2. The author of the passage implies that which of the
following occurred after the Iroquois were resettled
on reservations early in the nineteenth century?
(A) Chiefs became more involved in their tribes'
religious affairs.
(B) The authority of the chiefs' council over the
affairs of individual tribes increased.
(C) The political influence of the Iroquois shamans
was diminished.
(D) individual tribes coalesced into the Iroquois
tribal league.
(E) The longhouse because a political rather than a
religious institution. 










Over the years, biologists have suggested two main
pathways by which sexual selection may have shaped the
evolution of male birdsong. In the first, male competition
and intrasexual selection produce relatively short, simple
songs used mainly in territorial behavior. In the second,
female choice and intersexual selection produce longer,
more complicated songs used mainly in mate attraction;
like such visual ornamentation as the peacock's tail,
elaborate vocal characteristics increase the male's chances
of being chosen as a mate, and he thus enjoys more
reproductive success than his less ostentatious rivals. The
two pathways are not mutually exclusive, and we can
expect to find examples that reflect their interaction.
Teasing them apart has been an important challenge to
evolutionary biologists.
Early research confirmed the role of intrasexual
 










territory, also failed to correlate with song complexity.
The confirmation researchers had been seeking was
finally achieved in studies involving two varieties of
warblers. Unlike the song sparrow, which repeats one of its
several song types in bouts before switching to another, the
warbler continuously composes much longer and more
variable songs without repetition. For the first time,
researchers found a significant correlation between
repertoire size and early mating, and they discovered
further that repertoire size had a more significant effect
than any other measure of male quality on the number of
young produced. The evidence suggests that warblers use
their extremely elaborate songs primarily to attract females,
clearly confirming the effect of intersexual selection on the
evolution of birdsong.
(462 words)
 
selection. In a variety of experiments in the field, males
responded aggressively to recorded songs by exhibiting
territorial behavior near the speakers. The breakthrough for
research into intersexual selection came in the development
of a new technique for investigating female response in the
laboratory. When female cowbirds raised in isolation in
soundproof chambers were exposed to recordings of male
song, they responded by exhibiting mating behavior. By
quantifying the responses, researchers were able to
determine what particular features of the song were most
important. In further experiments on song sparrows,
researchers found that when exposed to a single song type
repeated several times or to a repertoire of different song
types, females responded more to the latter. The beauty of
the experimental design is that it effectively rules out
confounding variables; acoustic isolation assures that the
female can respond only to the song structure itself.
If intersexual selection operates as theorized, males
with more complicated songs should not only attract
females more readily but should also enjoy greater
reproductive success. At first, however, researchers doing
fieldwork with song sparrows found no correlation between
larger repertoires and early mating, which has been shown
to be one indicator of reproductive success; further,
common measures of male quality used to predict
reproductive success, such as weight, size, age, and

188 









3. The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that intrasexual selection has a greater
effect on birdsong than does intersexual selection
(B) contrasting the role of song complexity in several
species of birds
(C) describing research confirming the suspected
relationship between intersexual selection and the
complexity of birdsong
(D) demonstrating the superiority of laboratory work
over field studies in evolutionary biology
(E) illustrating the effectiveness of a particular
approach to experimental design in evolutionary
biology


4.The author mentions the peacock's tail in the first
paragraph most probably in order to
(A) cite an exception to the theory of the relationship
between intrasexual selection and male competition
(B) illustrate the importance of both of the pathways
that shaped the evolution of birdsong
(C) draw a distinction between competing theories of
intersexual selection
(D) give an example of a feature that may have evolved
through intersexual selection by female choice
(E) refute a commonly held assumption about the role
of song in mate attraction
 













































































189
 









5. The passage indicates that researchers raised female
cowbirds in acoustic isolation in order to
(A) eliminate confounding variables
(B) approximate field conditions
(C) measure reproductive success
(D) quantify repertoire complexity
(E) prevent early mating


6. According to the passage, the song sparrow is unlike
the warbler in that the song sparrow
(A) uses songs mainly in territorial behavior
(B) continuously composes long and complex songs
(C) has a much larger song repertoire
(D) repeats one song type before switching to another
(E) responds aggressively to recorded songs 










Which of the following, if true, most seriously challenges
 
7.Mayor: Four years ago when we reorganized the city
police department in order to save money, critics
claimed that the reorganization would make the police
less responsive to citizens and would thus lead to more
crime. The police have compiled theft statistics from
the years following the reorganization that show that
the critics were wrong. There was an overall decrease
in reports of thefts of all kinds, including small thefts.
 

































































190
 
the mayor's argument?

(A) When city police are perceived as unresponsive,
victims of theft are less likely to report thefts to
the police.
(B) The mayor's critics generally agree that police
statistics concerning crime reports provide the
most reliable available data on crime rates.
(C) In other cities where police departments have been
similarly reorganized, the numbers of reported
thefts have generally risen following
reorganization.
(D) The mayor's reorganization of the police
department failed to save as much money as it was
intended to save.
(E) During the four years immediately preceding the
reorganization, reports of all types of theft had
been rising steadily in comparison to reports of
other crimes. 









The term "remote sensing" refers to the techniques of
measurement and interpretation of phenomena from a
distance. Prior to the mid-1960's the interpretation of film
images was the primary means for remote sensing of the
Earth's geologic features. With the development of the
optomechanical scanner, scientists began to construct digital
multispectral images using data beyond the sensitivity range of
visible light photography. These images are constructed by
mechanically aligning pictorial representations of such
phenomena as the reflection of light waves outside the visible
spectrum, the refraction of radio waves, and the daily changes
in temperature in areas on the Earth's surface. The advantage
of digital over photographic imaging is evident: the resulting
numerical data are precisely known, and digital data are not
subject to the vagaries of difficult-to- control chemical
processing.
 













































































191
 









8. Select the sentence in the passage that implies a major
disadvantage of photographic imaging in geologic
mapping. 









For many years, Benjamin Quarles' seminal account of
the participation of African Americans in the American
Revolution has remained the standard work in the field.
According to Quarles, the outcome of this conflict was mixed
for African American slaves who enlisted in Britain's fight
against its rebellious American colonies in return for the
promise of freedom: the British treacherously resold many
into slavery in the West Indies, while others obtained
freedom in Canada and Africa. Building on Quarles' analysis
of the latter group, Sylvia Frey studied the former slaves who
emigrated to British colonies in Canada. According to Frey,
these refugees -- the most successful of the African American
Revolutionary War participants -- viewed themselves as the
ideological heirs of the American Revolution. Frey sees this
inheritances reflected in their demands for the same rights
that the American revolutionaries had demanded from the
British: land ownership, limits to arbitrary authority and
burdensome taxes, and freedom of religion. (157 words)


9.Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage concerning Britain's rule in its Canadian
colonies after the American Revolution?
(A) Humiliated by their defeat by the Americans, the British
sharply curtailed civil rights in their Canadian colonies.
(B) The British largely ignored their Canadian colonies.
(C) The British encouraged the colonization of Canada by
those African Americans who had served on the
American side as well as by those who had served on
the British side.
(D) Some of Britain's policies in its Canadian colonies
were similar to its policies in its American colonies
before the American Revolution.
(E) To reduce the debt incurred during the war, the British
imposed even higher taxes on the Canadian colonists
than they had on the American colonists.
 













































































192
 









10.Which of the following is most analogous to the
relationship between the African American
Revolutionary War participants who settled in Canada
after the American Revolution and the American
revolutionaries, as that relationship is described in the
passage?
(A) A brilliant pupil of a great musician rebels
against the teacher, but adopts the teacher's
musical style after the teacher's unexpected death.
(B) Two warring rulers finally make peace after a
lifetime of strife when they realize that they
have been duped by a common enemy.
(C) A child who has sided with a domineering
parent against a defiant sibling later makes
demands of the parent similar to those once
made by the sibling.
(D) A writer spends much of her life popularizing
the work of her mentor, only to discover late in
life that much of the older writer's work is
plagiarized from the writings of a foreign
contemporary.
(E) Two research scientists spend much of their
careers working together toward a common
goal, but later quarrel over which of them should
receive credit for the training of a promising
student. 










Exercise 34
 




Only an effective collaboration between filmmakers and
art historians can create films that will enhance viewers'
perceptions of art. Filmmakers need to resist the impulse to
move the camera quickly from detail to detail for fear of
boring the viewer, to frame the image for the sake of drama
alone, to add music for fear of silence. Filmmakers are
aware that an art object demands concentration and, at the
same time, are concerned that it may not be compelling
enough―and so they hope to provide relief by interposing
"real" scenes that bear only a tangential relationship to the
subject. But a work of art needs to be explored on its own
terms. On the other hand, art historians need to trust that
one can indicate and analyze, not solely with words, but also
by directing the viewer's gaze. The specialized written
language of art history needs to be relinquished or at least
 



1.The passage suggests that a filmmaker desiring to
enhance viewers‘ perceptions of art should do which of
the following?
(A) Rely on the precise language of art history when
developing scripts for films on art.
(B) Rely on dramatic narrative and music to set a
film's tone and style.
(C) Recognize that a work of art by itself can be
compelling enough to hold a viewer's attention
(D) Depend more strongly on narration instead of
camera movements to guide the viewer's gaze.
(E) Emphasize the social and the historical contexts
within which works of art have been created.


2.According to the passage, art historians desiring to
 
tempered for the screen.
 
(158 words)
 






































193
 
work with filmmakers to enhance the public's
appreciation of art need to acknowledge which of the
following?
(A) The art historian's role in the creation of a film on
art is likely to be a relatively minor one.
(B) Film provides an ideal opportunity to acquaint
viewers with a wide range of issues that relate
incidentally to a work of art.
(C) An in-depth analysis of a work of art is not an
appropriate topic for a film on art.
(D) Although silence may be an appropriate back-
ground when viewing a work of art in a
museum, it is inappropriate in a film.
(E) Film can use nonverbal means to achieve some of
the same results that a spoken or written discourse
can achieve. 










As people age, their cells become less efficient and less able
to replace damaged components. At the same time their tissues
stiffen. For example, the lungs and the heart muscle expand less
successfully, the blood vessels become increasingly rigid, and
the ligaments and tendons tighten.
Few investigators would attribute such diverse effects to a
single cause. Nevertheless, researchers have discovered that a
process long known to discolor and toughen foods may also
contribute to age- related impairment of both cells and tissues.
That process is nonenzymatic glycosylation, whereby glucose
 










people age), researchers studied the effect of glucose on
solutions of purified crystallin, the major protein in the lens of
the eye. Glucose-free solutions remained clear, but solutions
with glucose caused the proteins to form clusters, suggesting
that the molecules had become cross-linked. The clusters
diffracted light, making the solution opaque. The researchers
also discovered that the pigmented cross-links in human
cataracts have the brownish color and fluorescence
characteristic of AGE's. These data suggest that
nonenzymatic glycosylation of lens crystallins may
 
becomes attached to proteins without the aid of enzymes. When
 
contribute to cataract formation.
 
(454 words)
 
enzymes attach glucose to proteins (enzymatic glycosylation),
they do so at a specific site on a specific protein molecule for a
specific purpose. In contrast, the nonenzymatic process adds
glucose haphazardly to any of several sites along any available
peptide chain within a protein molecule.
This nonenzymatic glycosylation of certain proteins has
been understood by food chemists for decades, although few
biologists recognized until recently that the same steps could
take place in the body. Nonenzymatic glycosylation begins
when an aldehyde group (CHO) of glucose and an amino group
(NH2) of a protein are attracted to each other. The molecules
combine, forming what is called a Schiff base within the protein.
This combination is unstable and quickly rearranges itself into a
stabler, but still reversible, substance known as an Amadori
product.
If a given protein persists in the body for months or years,
some of its Amadori products slowly dehydrate and rearrange
themselves yet again, into new glucose-derived structures.
These can combine with various kinds of molecules to form
irreversible structures named advanced glycosylation end
products (AGE's). Most AGE's are yellowish brown and
fluorescent and have specific spectrographic properties. More
important for the body, many are also able to cross-link adjacent
proteins, particularly ones that give structure to tissues and
organs. Although no one has yet satisfactorily described the
origin of all such bridges between proteins, many investigators
agree that extensive cross-linking of proteins probably
contributes to the stiffening and loss of elasticity characteristic
of aging tissues.
In an attempt to link this process with the development of
cataracts (the browning and clouding of the lens of the eye as

194 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
3. According to the passage, which of the following
is NOT characteristic of enzymatic glycosylation of
proteins?
A Proteins affected by the process are made unstable.
B Glucose attachment impairs and stiffens tissues.
C Glucose is attached to proteins for specific purposes.


4. According to the passage, which of the following
statements is true of Amadori products in proteins?
(A) They are more plentiful in a dehydrated
environment.
(B) They are created through enzymatic glycosylation.
(C) They are composed entirely of glucose molecules.
(D) They are derived from Schiff bases.
(E) They are derived from AGE's
 













































































195
 









5. Which of the following best describes the function
of the third paragraph of the passage?
(A) It offers evidence that contradicts the findings
described in the first two paragraphs.
(B) It presents a specific example of the process
discussed in the first two paragraphs.
(C) It explains a problem that the researchers
mentioned in the second paragraph have yet to solve.
(D) It evaluates the research discoveries described
in the previous paragraph.
(E) It begins a detailed description of the process
introduced in the previous two paragraphs.


6. The passage suggests that which of the following
would be LEAST important in determining
whether nonenzymatic glycosylation is likely to
have taken place in the proteins of a particular
tissue?
(A) The likelihood that the tissue has been
exposed to free glucose
(B) The color and spectrographic properties of
structures within the tissue.
(C) The amount of time that the proteins in the
tissue have persisted in the body
(D) The number of amino groups within the
proteins in the tissue
(E) The degree of elasticity that the tissue exhibits 










7. It takes a particular talent to be a successful business
manager. Business courses can help people to solve
management problems, but such courses can do so
only for those people with managerial talent. Such
people should take business courses to acquire ideas
that they can subsequently use to good advantage if
management problems happen to arise.
 













































































196
 










If the statements above are true, which of the following
must also be true on the basis of them?

(A) People who are helped by business courses in
solving management problems also have
managerial talent.
(B) People who are already skilled at solving
management problems are unlikely to benefit
from business courses.
(C) Most ideas that are used successfully in solving
management problems are those acquired in
business courses.
(D) People who lack managerial talent are more
likely to take business courses than are people
who have managerial talent.
(E) Those people who have never taken business
courses are unable to solve management
problems when such problems arise. 










The age at which young children begin to make moral
discriminations about harmful actions committed against
themselves or others has been the focus of recent research into
the moral development of children. Until recently, child
psychologists supported pioneer developmentalist Jean Piaget in
his hypothesis that because of their immaturity, children under
age seven do not take into account the intentions of a person
committing accidental or deliberate harm, but rather simply
assign punishment for transgressions on the basis of the
magnitude of the negative consequences caused.
However, in recent research, Keasey found that six- year-old
children not only distinguish between accidental and intentional
harm, but also judge intentional harm as naughtier, regardless of
the amount of damage produced. Both of these findings seem to
indicate that children, at an earlier age than Piaget claimed,
advance into the second stage of moral development, moral
autonomy, in which they accept social rules but view them as
more arbitrary than do children in the first stage. (163 words)
 













































































197
 










8.According to the passage, Piaget and Keasey would not
have agreed on which of the following points?
(A) The kinds of excuses children give for harmful
acts they commit
(B) The age at which children begin to discriminate
between intentional and unintentional harm
(C) The intentions children have in perpetrating harm
(D) The circumstances under which children punish
harmful acts
(E) The justifications children recognize for mitigating
punishment for harmful acts


9.According to the passage, Keasey's findings support
which of the following conclusions about six-year-old
children?
(A)They have the ability to make autonomous moral
judgments.
(B)They regard moral absolutism as a threat to their
moral autonomy.
(C)They do not understand the concept of public duty.
(D)They accept moral judgment made by their peers
more easily than do older children.
(E)They make arbitrary moral judgments. 










As of the late 1980's. neither theorists nor large-scale
computer climate models could accurately predict
whether cloud systems would help or hurt a warming
globe. Some studies suggested that a four percent increase
in stratocumulus clouds over the ocean could compensate
for a doubling in atmospheric carbon dioxide, preventing
a potentially disastrous planetwide temperature increase.
On the other hand, an increase in cirrus clouds could
increase global warming.
That clouds represented the weakest element in climate
models was illustrated by a study of fourteen such models.
Comparing climate forecasts for a world with double the
current amount of carbon dioxide, researchers found that
the models agreed quite well if clouds were not included.
But when clouds were incorporated, a wide range of
forecasts was produced.
(125 words)
 













































































198
 










10. Select the sentence that indicates one reason the
fourteen models described in the passage failed to
agree. 










Exercise 35
 




It is their sensitive response to human circumstance that
accounts for the persistence of certain universal ideas. Rabbi
Meir, a second-century scholar, admonished his disciples to
look not at the pitcher but at its contents because, he stated,
"Many a new pitcher has been found to be full of old wine."
Creative ideas not only produce their own instruments of
survival as time and circumstances demand, but permit the
substitution of new forms for old under the pressure of
changed circumstances. For example democracy, as an idea,
originated in ancient Greece and was carried from there to
Western Europe and the Americas. But it did not retain the
ancient Greek form: it passed through several reforming
processes and exists today in many countries. Democratic
governments differ in form because democracy is in principle
dynamic and has therefore responded to local needs.
(141 words)
 
































































199
 




1. Select the sentence that contains the idea the example
of democracy is intended to illustrate


2.The "new pitcher" mentioned in the passage is the
equivalent of which of the following elements in the
author's discussion of democracy?
(A) Ancient Greece
(B) The idea of democracy
(C) A modern democratic government
(D) A dynamic principle
(E) The Greek form of democracy 









Aided by the recent ability to analyze samples of air
trapped in glaciers, scientists now have a clearer idea of
the relationship between atmospheric composition and
global temperature change over the past 160,000 years.
In particular, determination of atmospheric composition
during periods of glacial expansion and retreat (cooling
and warming) is possible using data from the 2,000-meter
Vostok ice core drilled in Antarctica. The technique
involved is similar to that used in analyzing cores of
marine sediments, where the ratio of the two common
18      16

temperature changes. Isotopic analysis of oxygen in the
Vostok core suggests mean global temperature
fluctuations of up to 10 degrees centigrade over the past
160,000 years.
Data from the Vostok core also indicate that the
amount of carbon dioxide has fluctuated with temperature
over the same period: the higher the temperature, the
higher the concentration of carbon dioxide and the lower
the temperature, the lower the concentration. Although
change in carbon dioxide content closely follows change
in temperature during periods of deglaciation, it
apparently lags behind temperature during periods of
cooling. The correlation of carbon dioxide with
temperature, of course, does not establish whether
changes in atmospheric composition caused the warming
and cooling trends or were caused by them.
The correlation between carbon dioxide and
temperature throughout the Vostok record is consistent
and predictable. The absolute temperature changes,
however, are from 5 to 14 times greater than would be
expected on the basis of carbon dioxide‘s own ability to
absorb infrared radiation, or radiant heat. This reaction
suggests that, quite aside from changes in heat-trapping
gases, commonly known as greenhouse gases, certain
positive feedbacks are also amplifying the temperature
change. Such feedbacks might involve ice on land and sea,
clouds, or water vapor, which also absorb radiant heat.
Other data from the Vostok core show that methane
gas also correlates closely with temperature and carbon
dioxide. The methane concentration nearly doubled, for
example, between the peak of the penultimate glacial
period and the following interglacial period. Within the
 













































































200
 









present interglacial period it has more than doubled in just
the past 300 years and is rising rapidly. Although the
concentration of atmospheric methane is more than two
orders of magnitude lower than that of carbon dioxide, it
cannot be ignored: the radiative properties of methane
make it 20 times more effective, molecule for molecule,
than carbon dioxide in absorbing radiant heat. On the
basis of a simulation model that climatological
researchers have developed, methane appears to have
been about 25 percent as important as carbon dioxide in
the warming that took place during the most recent glacial
retreat 8,000 to 10,000 years ago.
(445 words) 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
3. The passage provides information to support which
of the following statements about methane EXCEPT?


A Methane is more effective than carbon dioxide
in absorbing radiant heat.
B The higher the concentration of carbon dioxide
in the Earth‘s atmosphere; the lower the
concentration of methane.
C Most of the global warming that has occurred
during the past 10 years has been associated with
 









5. It can be inferred from the passage that a long-term
decrease in the concentration of carbon dioxide in
the Earth‘s atmosphere would
(A) increase methane concentration in the
Earth‘s atmosphere
(B) accompany a period of glaciation
(C) encourage the formation of more oxygen
isotopes in the Earth‘s atmosphere
(D) promote the formation of more water in the
Earth‘s global environment
(E) increase the amount of infrared radiation
absorbed by the Earth‘s atmosphere
 
increased methane concentration.
6. The passage suggests that when the methane
 
4. According to the passage, which of the following
statements best describes the relationship between
carbon dioxide and global temperature?
(A) Carbon dioxide levels change immediately
in response to changes in temperature.
(B) Carbon dioxide levels correlate with global
temperature during cooling periods only.
(C) Once carbon dioxide levels increase, they
remain high regardless of changes in global
temperature.
(D)Carbon dioxide levels increase more quickly
than global temperature does.
(E) During cooling periods, carbon dioxide levels
initially remain high and then decline.
 














































201
 
concentration in the Earth‘s atmosphere
decreases, which of the following also
happens?
(A) Glaciers melt faster.
(B) The concentration of carbon dioxide increases.
(C) The mean global temperature decreases.
(D) Carbon dioxide absorbs more radiant beat
(E) More clouds form in the Earth‘s atmosphere 









The essential condition for the decay of the vacuum is
the presence of an intense electric field. As a result of the
decay of the vacuum, the space permeated by such a field
can be said to acquire an electric charge, and it can be
called a charged vacuum. The particles that materialize in
the space make the charge manifest. An electric field of
sufficient intensity to create a charged vacuum is likely to
be found in only one place: in the immediate vicinity of a
superheavy atomic nucleus, one with about twice as many
protons as the heaviest natural nuclei known. A nucleus
that large cannot be stable, but it might be possible to
assemble one next to a vacuum for long enough to
observe the decay of the vacuum.
(131 words)
 













































































202
 









7. The author‘s assertions concerning the conditions
that lead to the decay of the vacuum would be
most weakened if which of the following occurred?


(A) Scientists created an electric field next to a
vacuum, but found that the electric field was
not intense enough to create a charged
vacuum.
(B) Scientists assembled a superheavy atomic
nucleus next to a vacuum, but found that no
virtual particles were created in the vacuum‘s
region of space.
(C) Scientists assembled a superheavy atomic
nucleus next to a vacuum, but found that
they could not then detect any real particles
in the vacuum‘s region of space.
(D)Scientists introduced a virtual electron and a
virtual positron into a vacuum‘s region of
space, but found that the vacuum did not
then fluctuate.
(E) Scientists introduced a real electron and a real
positron into a vacuum‘s region of space, but
found that the total energy of the space
increased by the energy equivalent of the
mass of the particles. 












Historians have only recently begun to note the
increase in demand for luxury goods and services that
took place in eighteenth-century England. To answer the
question of why consumers became so eager to buy, some
historians have pointed to the ability of manufacturers to
advertise in a relatively uncensored press. This, however,
hardly seems a sufficient answer. McKendrick favors a
Veblen model of conspicuous consumption stimulated by
competition for status. The "middling sort" bought goods
and services because they wanted to follow fashions set
by the rich. Again, we may wonder whether this
explanation is sufficient. Do not people enjoy buying
things as a form of self-gratification? If so, consumerism
could be seen as a product of the rise of new concepts of
individualism and materialism, but not necessarily of the
 












8.In the paragraph, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) contrasting two theses and offering a compromise
(B) questioning two explanations and proposing a
possible alternative to them.
(C) paraphrasing the work of two historians and
questioning their assumptions
(D) examining two theories and endorsing one over
the other
(E) raising several questions but implying that they
cannot be answered.


9.According to the passage, a Veblen model of
conspicuous consumption has been used to
(A) investigate the extent of the demand for luxury
goods among social classes in eighteenth-
 
frenzy for conspicuous competition.
 
(135 words)
 










































203
 
century England
(B) classify the kinds of luxury goods desired by
eighteenth-century consumers
(C) explain the motivation of eighteenth-century
consumers to buy luxury goods
(D) establish the extent to which the tastes of rich
consumers were shaped by the middle classes
in eighteenth-century England
(E)compare luxury consumerism in eighteenth-
century England with such consumerism in
the twentieth century 










How can the hormone adrenaline that does not act directly
on the brain have a regulatory effect on brain function?
Recently, we tested the possibility that one of the hormone's
actions outside the brain might be responsible. Since one
consequence of adrenaline release in an animal is an increase
in blood glucose levels, we examined the effects of glucose on
memory in rats. We found that glucose injected immediately
after training enhances memory tested the next day. Additional
evidence was provided by negative findings    : drugs called
adrenergic antagonists, which block peripheral adrenaline
receptors, disrupted adrenaline's ability to regulate memory
but did not affect memory enhancements produced by glucose
that was not stimulated by adrenaline. These results are as they
should be if adrenaline affects memory modulation by
 










10.The author refers to the results of the experiment using
adrenergic antagonists as "negative findings"
most likely because the adrenergic antagonists


(A) failed to disrupt adrenaline's effect on memory
(B) did not affect glucose's ability to enhance memory.
(C) did not block adrenaline's ability to increase blood
glucose levels
(D) only partially affected adrenaline's ability to
enhance memory
(E) disrupted both adrenaline's and glucose's effect
on memory
 
increasing blood glucose levels.
 
(131 words)
 













































204 










Exercise 36
 




An experiment conducted aboard Space Lab in 1983 was the
first attempt to grow protein crystals in the low-gravity
environment of space. That experiment is still cited as
evidence that growing crystals in microgravity can increase
crystal size: the authors reported that they grew lysozyme
protein crystals 1,000 times larger than crystals grown in the
same device on Earth. Unfortunately, the authors did not
point out that their crystals were no larger than the average
crystal grown using other, more standard techniques in an
Earth laboratory. No research has yet produced results that
could justify the enormous costs of producing crystals on a
large scale in space. To get an unbiased view of the
usefulness of microgravity crystal growth, crystals grown in
space must be compared with the best crystals that have been
grown with standard techniques on Earth.
(139 words)
 
































































205
 




1.It can be inferred from the passage that the author
would find the Space Lab experiment more impressive
if which of the following were true?
(A) The results of the Space Lab experiment could be
replicated in producing other kinds of crystals in
addition to lysozyme protein.
(B) The device used in the experiment produced larger
crystals on Earth than it did in space.
(C) The size of the crystals produced in the experiment
exceeded the size of crystals grown in
Earth laboratories using standard techniques.
(D)The cost of producing the crystals in space exceeded
that of producing them using standard laboratory
techniques.
(E) The standard techniques used in Earth laboratories
were modified in the Space Lab experiment due to
the effects of microgravity.


2.Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage about the device used to grow crystals in the
Space Lab experiment?
(A) The device is more expensive to manufacture than are
the devices used in standard techniques in an Earth
laboratory.
(B) The device has not been used to grow crystals in
space since the Space Lab experiment of 1983.
(C) Crystals grown in the device on Earth tend to be
much smaller than crystals grown in it in space.
(D) Crystals grown in the device in space have been
exceeded in size by crystals grown in subsequent
experiments in space using other devices.
(E) The experiments in which the device was used
were conducted with proper controls. 









An experimental version of the traditional scholarly
methods course was designed to raise students'
consciousness about the usefulness of traditional learning
for any modern critic or theorist. To minimize the artificial
aspects of the conventional course, the usual procedure of
assigning a large number of small problems drawn from the
entire range of historical periods was abandoned, though
this procedure has the obvious advantage of at least
superficially familiarizing students with a wide range of
reference sources. Instead, students were engaged in a
collective effort to do original work on a neglected
eighteenth-century writer, Elizabeth Griffith, to give them
an authentic experience of literary scholarship and to
inspire them to take responsibility for the quality of their
own work. Griffith's work presented a number of
advantages for this particular pedagogical purpose. The
body of extant scholarship on Griffith was so tiny that it
could all be read in a day. In addition, because Griffith was
successful in the eighteenth century, her exclusion from the
canon and virtual disappearance from literary history also
helped raise issues concerning the current canon.
(179 words)
 













































































206
 









3. The author of the passage suggests that which of the
following is a disadvantage of the strategy employed in
the experimental scholarly methods course?
(A) Students were not given an opportunity to study
women writers outside the canon.
(B) Students' original work would not be appreciated
by recognized scholars.
(C) Little scholarly work has been done on the work
of Elizabeth Griffith.
(D) Most of the students in the course had had little
opportunity to study eighteenth-century literature.
(E) Students were not given an opportunity to
encounter certain sources of information that could
prove useful in their future studies.


4. It can be inferred that the author of the passage con-
siders traditional scholarly methods courses to be
(A) irrelevant to the work of most students
(B) inconsequential because of their narrow focus
(C) unconcerned about the accuracy of reference
sources
(D) too superficial to establish important facts about
authors
(E) too wide-ranging to approximate genuine scholarly
activity


5. In the context in which it appears, "canon" most nearly
means


A dogma
B classic
C tour de force
D ordinance
E tenet 









Experiments show that insects can function as pollinators
of cycads, rare, palmlike tropical plants. Furthermore,
cycads removed from their native habitats—and therefore
from insects native to those habitats—are usually infertile.
Nevertheless, anecdotal reports of wind pollination in
cycads cannot be ignored. The structure of cycads male
cones is quite consistent with the wind dispersal of pollen,
clouds of which are released from some of the larger cones.
The male cone of Cycas circinalis, for example, sheds
almost 100 cubic centimeters of pollen, most of which is
probably dispersed by wind. Furthermore, the structure of
most female cycad cones seems inconsistent with direct
pollination by wind. Only in the Cycas genus are the
females' ovules accessible to airborne pollen, since only in
this genus are the ovules surrounded by a loose aggregation
of megasporophylls rather than by a tight cone.
(141 words)
 













































































207
 









For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
6. The passage suggests that which of the following is
true of the structure of cycad cones?
A The structure of cycad cones provides conclusive
evidence in favor of one particular explanation
of cycad pollination.
B The structure of male cycad cones rules out a
possible mechanism for cycad pollination that is
suggested by the structure of most female cycad
cones.
C The structure of male cycad cones is consistent
with a certain means of cycad pollination, but
that means is inconsistent with the structure of
most female cycad cones.


7. The evidence in favor of insect pollination of cycads
presented in the second sentence would be more
convincing if which of the following were also true?
(A) Only a small variety of cycad species can be
successfully transplanted.
(B) Cycads can sometimes be pollinated by means
other than wind or insects.
(C) Insects indigenous to regions to which cycads are
transplanted sometimes feed on cycads.
(D) Winds in the areas to which cycads are usually
transplanted are similar to winds in cycads'
native habitats.
(E) The transplantation of cycads from one region to
another usually involves the accidental removal
and introduction of insects as well. 










8. That sales can be increased by the presence of sunlight
within a store has been shown by the experience of
the only Savefast department store with a large
skylight. The skylight allows sunlight into half of the
store, reducing the need for artificial light. The rest of
the store uses only artificial light. Since the store
opened two years ago, the departments on the sunlit
side have had substantially higher sales than the other
departments.
 













































































208
 









Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the
argument?

(A) On particularly cloudy days, more artificial light
is used to illuminate the part of the store under
the skylight.
(B) When the store is open at night, the departments
in the part of the store under the skylight have
sales that are no higher than those of other
departments.
(C) Many customers purchase items from
departments in both parts of the store on a single
shopping trip.
(D) Besides the skylight, there are several significant
architectural differences between the two parts of
the store.
(E) The departments in the part of the store under the
skylight are the departments that generally have
the highest sales in other stores in the Savefast
chain. 










Influenced by the view of some twentieth-century
feminists that women's position within the family is one of
the central factors determining women's social position,
some historians have underestimated the significance of the
woman suffrage movement. These historians contend that
nineteenth-century suffragism was less radical and, hence,
less important than, for example, the moral reform
movement or domestic feminism—two nineteenth-century
movements in which women struggled for more power and
autonomy within the family. True, by emphasizing these
struggles, such historians have broadened the conventional
view of nineteenth-century feminism, but they do a
historical disservice to suffragism. Nineteenth-century
feminists and anti-feminist alike perceived the suffragists'
demand for enfranchisement as the most radical element in
women's protest, in part because suffragists were
demanding power that was not based on the institution of
 










9. Select the sentence that includes a qualification of the
author‘s critical attitude toward the study of the historians
as they are described in the passage.


For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply


10. The passage provides information to support which of
the following statements about the historians discussed in
the passage EXCEPT


A They rely too greatly on the perceptions of the actual
participants in the events they study.
B Their assessment of the significance of nineteenth-
century suffragism differs considerably from that
of nineteenth-century feminists.
C They devote too much attention to nineteenth-
 
the family, women's traditional sphere.
 
(135 words)
 








































209
 
century suffragism at the expense of more
radical movements that emerged shortly after
the turn of the century.